R E VI RE W 
CONSTITUTION 


GREAT. BRITAI 


THIRD EDITION, 


WITH CONSIDERABLE ADDITIONS, 

| T7 BY JOHN OSWALD: 


. Thou art weighed in the balance, and art found wanting,” 


bie E The „ A 
portunity of delivering ſome obſervations 
on the Conſtitution of Great - Britain. The 
diſcdurſe which he pronounced on that occa- 
ſion was ſoon after publiſhed, Fee 


TH E outlines of this Pamphlet appeared 
1 © firſt in the month of May 1790, in- 
ferted in the UNVERSAL PaTRIOT, an 
Engliſh' Paper printed at Paris, which the 
Britiſh Miniſtry were at ſome pains to a; 
preſs. Soon afterwards the Petition of Mr. 
Horne Tooke to the Houſe of Commons, on 
the late Weſtminſter election, having awa- 
kened the attention of the public, the Mana- 
gers of Coachmaker's-Hall (a ſociety which, 
we hope, will ſoon render in England to the 
cauſe of Liberty the ſame ſervices which it 
has derived from the Jacobins in France) 
propoſed for debate the following queſtion : 
« Is the Petition of Mr. Horne Tooke a 
„ libel on the Houſe of Commons, or a juſt 
** ſtatement of public grievances proceeding 
« from the unfair repreſentation of the peo- 
5 « ple?” The Author embraced that op- 
portunity of delivering ſome obſervations _ 
on the Conſtitutzon of Great-Britain. - The 
diſcourſe which he pronounced on that occa- 
ſion was ſoon after publiſhed. 7 

now made to this Pamphlet 
[ck for the greater part of paſlages eraſed 
from the manuſcript of the firſt edition, in 
deference to the opinion , of ſome moderate 
men of my acquaintance. 

The ſame principle of moderation has ſtill 
engaged me to ſuppreſs ſeveral facts and ob- 
ſervations ſtrictly true, but which might have 
too deeply irritated the zealots of the Engliſh 
Conſtitution. 3 however, * 1 
ſhall not altogether eſcape the charge of vio- 
lence; a cenſure which, in this — of ſyco- 
phancy and circumlocution, a plain blunt 
man, who tries to advance in a ſtraigkt line te to | 
the 8 cannot Ps yd. 



No de praiſe of a great and good charaites 
of dae times it is recorded, that he led 
home to the buſineſs of human life, and the ob- 
jects of moral action, the ſtar-gazing ſtudies of the 


Greeks. 5 4 
Such praiſe is due no leſs to the ſalutary pru« 


dence of the queſtion which forms the baſis of the 
evening's debate; a queſtion which thus wiſely 


conducts us frgm the glittering track of metaphy - 


ſical ſterility, to the more productive field of home- 


inveſtigation, Know THYSELF, is the firſt precept 
of wiſdom ; and to this knowledge of ourſelves, to 
a knowledge of our civil and political ſituations, a 
due diſcuſſion of the preſent ſubject will enable us 
to arrive. For the queſtion is not ſimply, Whether 
an individual, of the name of Horne Tooke, has 
or has not been aggrieved? but, Whether a great 


people are fairly repreſented, and juſtly governed? 
or, Whether, on the contrary, abuſed by the mere 


Phantom of freedom, and * by the bombaſt of a 



certain conflitutional cant, they have ſunk into le- 
thargic ſecurity; while their perſons and property 
are ſubjected to the moſt unbluſhing ſyſtem of 
peculation that ever uſurped the name of Govern- 
ment ? . 8 | 
From this enquiry nothing can ariſe but good. 
If it ſhall appear that Mr. Horne Tooke has 
ſounded a falſe alarm, and that the grievances of 
which he complains are not founded in fact, we 
ſhall then have encreaſed the ſum of our happineſs, 
by adding to the real ſafety of our ſtate that pleaſing 
ſenſe of ſecurity, which an accurate inſpection of the 
conſtitutional fabric ſhall thus confirm in our 
minds. If, on the other hand, it ſhall appear 
that the very pillars of the State are rotten and cor- 
rupt, we ſhall then have diſcovered the cauſe of 
our decay :—to apply the remedy remains with 
us. 
In this Society, I doubt not, the queſtion will 
undergo that free and candid diſcuſſion which its 
importance certainly demands. Here, at leaſt, we 
may deliver with impunity our ſentiments. Here, 
1 hope, are no faſtidious ears to ſtartle at the dic- 
tates of truth; here are no ſelfiſh intereſts, no anti- 
ſocial privileges, no pitiful etiquette to repel the 
ſolicitations of humanity and juſtice. Here we 
ſhall not, by threats of fines, of impriſonment, 
and of pillory, be deterred from exalting the voice 
of freedom; nor ſhall the hard gripe of Deſpotiſm 
dare, 1n this place, to feize us by the throat, and 
command us to bury in the depth of our boſom 
the ſilent ſenſe of our wrongs and our oppreffion. 
I am no orator, Mr. Chairman, nor ever, except 
upon this queſtion, have I riſen in public to deli- 
ver my ſentiments on any ſubject whatever; but 
ſo cloſely connected with the deareſt intereſt - my 


heart; the cauſe of freedom, do I feel the preſent 


object of your debate, that I cannot reſiſt the 
temptation of hazarding on this occaſion a few 
rude obſervations. Your indulgence, however, I 
ſhall endeavour to merit by the brevity of my diſ- 
courſe, and by a ſtrict adherence to plain common 
{enſe, which I take to be the true touchſtone of all 
political inſtitutions, and of every form of governs 
ment whatſoever. | ; 

I come, therefore, bluntly to the queſtion ; and 
I declare, that after peruſing with attention the pes 
tition of Mr. Horne Tooke, I cannot but confider 
it as the moſt direct and daring libel on the Houſe 
of Commons that ever ventured within the walls of 
Sr. Stephen's Chapel: I repeat it, the moſt direct 
and daring libel on the Houſe of Commons—for 
it is the truth itſelf; and according to the doctrine of 
our Lawyers, and to the preſent practice of our 
Courts, the truer the aſſertion, the greater is the libel. 
Mr. Horne Tooke has the audacity to complain, 
that parliamentary elections are in general con- 
ducted by the moſt ſnameful modes of bribery and 
corruption. And who is there ſo deeply intereſted 


in the profits of the preſent order of things as to 


deny the fact, or ſo damned in political ſycophancy 
as not to confeſs the juſtice of this complaint ? 
Mr. Horne Tooke complains alſo, that the ci- 
tizens are prevented by armed force from availing 
themſelves of their rights; and that murders have 
been committed with impunity, by ruffians hired to 
impede the freedom of election. And have we 
not ſeen the bludgeoned banditti of both factions 
(for between them both I am willing to divide 
equally the blame); have we not ſeen them mar- 
ſhalled under their reſpective leaders, block up 

every paſſage to the huſtings, and ruſh to the com- 


„ 
bat like two contending armies in the field of bat - 
tle ? The timid, the moderate, and the prudent 
citizens in general, avoided a ſcene of violence and 
uproar; and curſed, from the bottom of their hearts, 


a brutal anarchy, more 1 if poſſible, than 
ablolute deſpotiſm itſelf. In fine, Mr. Horne 


Tooke aſſerts, that the majority of ſeats in the Houſe 


of Commons are bought and ſold like ſtalls for cat- 


tle at a fair. And 1s not this a notorious fact, which 


all the world know as well as Mr. Horne Tooke ? 


but which till now, in the face of that corrupt and 


all- corrupting aſſembly, no man, except Mr. Horne 
Tooke, has yet had the patriotic hardihood to aſſert. 


Whatever, therefore, it may be deemed in the ſel- 


fiſh ſophiſtry of borough- jobbers, or in the pitiful 
chicane of legal y in the eye of common ſenſe, 
in which truth is no libel, the petition of Horne 
Tooke will not be conſidered as a libellous attack on 
the Houſe of Commons, but as a juſt and true ſtate- 
ment of the grievances of the nation, proceeding 


from the unequal repreſentation, or rather the mock- 


repreſentation of the people. 1 
I ſhould perhaps make an apology for the naked - 

ſimplicity of my diſcourſe ; but that in the preſent 
critical fluctuation of public humours, a torrent of 
eloquence would not prepare fo ſalutary an effect as 
a ſmall inſtillation of ſimple truth. I ſhall there- 
fore beg to treſpaſs a little longer onyour indulgence, 
by a few remarks on the repreſentation of this coun- 


try. And here, Gentlemen, I muſt requeſt that you 


will fuffer me to deliver my ſentiments in plain En- 
gliſh, a language perfectly harmleſs to the ears of 
our forefathers, however harſh it may grate on the 
delicate nerve of modern refinement. I could never 
learn any other manner of ſpeech ; and except you 
give me leave to mention things by their proper 



names, I kad if better to h elf 1 than * 


your offence by proceeding farther. 
Repreſentation pre- ſuppoſes election; for no man 
can repreſent another except he has been choſen by 


him for that purpoſe. For let us ſuppoſe that a 


man ſhould take upon him to act for a perſon by 
whom he had not been choſen ; that he ſhould col- 
lect his rents, diſtribute his revenue, and even levy a 
tax on the produce of his perſonal labour, Wouldyou 
conſider him as a lawful agent, or as a thief and a 
robber, who had invaded under a falſe n the 
property of another? 

But the repreſentatives of che people are the agents 
of the public: they manage the common ſtock; and 
this common ſtock conſiſts of che collective wealth 


of all the individuals. Every individual, therefore, 


ſhould have a voice in the appointment of che com. 


mon agents of all. No, ſay ſome with an air of tri- 


umph, thoſe only ſhould have a right to vote who 
are men of property. But, pray, Is there any man 
without property? Is not the daily labour of the 
peaſant, or the mechanic, as much his property, and 
as precious to him, as the wide poſſeſſions or funded 
wealth of the landholder, or man of money? Is not 
the poor man, whoſe very exiſtence depends on the 
wiſdom or folly of adminiſtration, at leaft as much 
intereſted in the right management of government, 
as he whoſe ſuperftuities alone are endangered by its 
imprudence ? The tax which leſſens the luxuries 
of the ſon of wealth, and thins a little the crowd. of 


his lacqueys, ſhall rob the poor man of his morſel/of _ 


bread, and turn his wife and children naked into'the 
ſtreet. But not only is the ſubſtance of the poor 
man perpetually expoſed to depredation (and the 


whole robbery of government will be found to fall 


Po ulumately on the the poorer claſſes of citizens), 

but he is every moment liable to pay with his 
blood the price of miniſterial miſmanagement.— 
Let us ſuppoſe that a weak or a wicked prince 
(and too many royal monſters have diſgraced the 
throne of theſe kingdoms) ; let us ſuppoſe, I ſay, 
that a weak or a wicked King, an ambitious NMlini- 
ſter, a rapacious Ariſtocracy, ſhould think fit (tor all 
or each of theſe are able) to plunge the nation into 
war, Where, pray, would they find the victims of 
their ambition? Among the rich? No, certainly; 
the rich man redeems his ſervice with a piece of 
filver. His blood is too precious to be ſpilt in the 
quarrels which he foments, and from which he alone 
can derive the leaſt advantage. The demons of 
havoc and maſſacre muſt reſt ſatisfied with the 
ranſom of viler victims. For the benefit of the 
rich, the luxurious, and the idle, the ſweat of the 
labouring poor muſt always ooze from every pore z 
but now, to gratify the cruel thirſt of ambition, not 
their ſweat only, but their very blood muſt flow. 
To inveigle the poor man into the bands of mer- 
cenary murderers, every art, every ſpecies of fraud 
is fer on foot; to delude him from his fire- ſide, from 
the boſom of his wife and children, the gay phan- 
tom of glory is made to dance before his ſight. 
His avarice is rouſed, his weakneſſes are watched, his 
nakedneſs is eſpied, his moments of relaxation are 
way- laid; if in the narrow path of his daily duties he 
ſhould chance to make a ſingle indiſcreet ſtep to the 
Tight or to the left, he falls into the man-traps of 
an abominable craft, and is doomed to encreaſe 
I number of choſe unfortunate men who receive 
a daily ſtarvation of bread and water, to ſharpen 

their ſouls to that ferocity of wretchedneſs to 
which, to butcher a fellow-man, or to all by his 
Popes are alike unimportant. 15 | 


But 


Nut the poor man is liable not only to be cheat - 
ed of his liberty, and tricked into this ſanguinary 
ſervice; but, more atrocious ſtill, he is hunted 
down like a wild beaſt; he 1s torn from his family ; 
he is dragged by rutians in the broad face of 


day, in the ſight of his countrymen and fellow- 
citizens; he is dragged like a murderer through 


the ſtreets; like a ſheep doomed for ſlaughter, he is 
thrown down the dark dungeon of a fioating-jail, 


amidſt a ſuffocating crowd of unhappy men like 


himſelf. If he ſurvives this horrible trial, he is 


ſent aboard one of thoſe royal ſlaughter-houſes of 
our ſeamen, a man of war. If, from the danger of 
war and perils, of the deep alſo, he chances to eſ- 
cape, as ſoon as his ſervice can be diſpenſed with 
he is ſent aſhore—to be hanged. He was guilty 
of theft, you will ſay: he committed robbery. But 
what could he do? He found himſelf thrown adrift 
uponthe wide world, without money, without friends, 
without reſources; and unable to find employment, 
he was urged by hunger to overleap the iron barriers 
of property. For his crime (if that to which a dire 
neceſſity compels can be called a crime) he made 
atonement by death: and yet his honeſt and in- 
genuous ſoul would have choſen rather to wither 


with want than to be guilty of an action that was 


coupled with diſgrace; —but he was driven to de- 


ſpair by a calamity, which human nature is ill able 


to ſupport. After a long and cheerleſs journey, he 
arrived at that humble cot from whence, a few 
months before, he had been dragged by the cruel 


hand of power. He approached his humble ha- 


bitation ; but his foul funk with {ad forebodings 


at a fight that was wont to make his heart leap 
with joy. He approached his humble habitation; 
but no fond wife flew to his embrace. —He en- 

ters but, ah me! how fearfully ſilent is his fire - ſidel 
* Where art thou, my love !” he cries, with a faul- 
tering voice. —Alas! the was no more Torn from 
her buſband, robbed of the ſtay of her ſoul, be- 
reaved of the ſun-ſhine of her heart, ſhe bowed 
her gentle head and ſunk into the grave. 

In the narrow dwelling of death her ſorrows are 
_ compoſed. But firſt, O woeful fight! ſhe had 
ſeen her babe expire upon her breaſt ; ſhe had 
ſeen languiſh upon her. boſom the fruit of her 
chæſte love, and wither by the ſprings of nouriſh- 
ment which nature had provided, but which grief 
and indigence had dried up. 

This is no tale of artificial ſorrow, no eloquent 
fiction of ſplendid diſtreſs, no delightful viſian made 
todance on the horizon of vanity; but a frequent, a la- 
mentable fact, which appeals ſimply to the honeſt 
and uncorrupted feelings of the heart. Here are no 
royal gew-gaws, it is true, to dazzle the under- 
ſtanding, no dagger to glitter through the ſhin- 
ing ſuperficies of courthy pamphlets ; but yet, to 
every man that will open the eyes of his under- 
ftanding, and whoſe bowels are not inexorably 
hut, the plain ſtory of humble grief will, I hope, 
be ſufficient to prove how neceſſary it is to protect, 
by every poſſible means, the political weakneſs of 
poverty from the inſults, the outrages, and the 
cruel oppreſſion of the powerful and the rich. If 
there be any claſs of men that might, with ſome de- 
gree of ſafety, be left without a voice in the govern- 
ment, it is the opulent; for in all governments not 
abſolutely deſpotic, the opulent are luffciently pro- 
tected by their wealth. 

We may, therefore, I think, without preſump- 
tion, aſſume it as a principle in a free State: 

Fa, That every man ſhall be actually repreſented. 
1 Sec ondly, 

ſhall have an equal vote in the election of their re- 


preſentatives; for the man that has not a vote, is 


not repreſented at all; and if any man is permitted 
to have more than one vote, then the people are 
not fairly repreſented. | 

And now, Where ſhall we find the repreſentatives 


of the people of England? In Parliament, no 


doubt. But the Parliament conſiſts of three powers; 


the King, the Lords, and the Commons. Does 


the King repreſent the people? The King, I re- 
ply, is indeed appointed to enforce the laws, but not 
deputed to enact them. > as 

Are the people repreſented by the Lords ? No, 


certainly; for the Lords are not elected by the people. 


They are the mere-creatures of the Crown, and a 


part of that regal pageanty, to ſupport which the 


people are ſo ſhamefully taxed, and ſo cruelly cur- 
_ tailedof the comforts, and even of the neceſſaries of 
life. The Lords, in ſhort, are a privileged tribe 
of men totally diſtin from the people. A Peer 


is a ſort of political monſter, who is born a law- 
giver, ſucks from his nurſe's breaſt the wiſdom of 


legiſlation, and comes into Parliament to repreſent 
E himſelf. If he repreſents any body whatever, it 
muſt be thoſe Daniſh, Saxon, or Norman pirates, 
who, at different periods,” invaded this country, 

illaged and reduced to ſlavery the natives; and 
5 — acquired a larger ſhare of booty than their 
brother Buccaneers, became Barons, and trampled 
with the foot of pride on the neck of the hum- 


bled inhabitants. Whether our moſt Noble 


Lords, Dukes, Earls, &c. have much reaſon to 
boaſt the honour of repreſenting thoſe vag abond 
robbers of antiquity, I = not pretend to decide 

Secondly, That all the Members of the State 

but certainly chis is the only repreſentation to which 


they have any reaſonable claim. 
The abſurdity of an hereditary nobility has, from 


its firſt inſtitution, been fully demonſtrated. Let 


us now examine, Whether the eſtabliſhment of any 
privileged caſt of men whatever, can be reconciled 


to the principles of juſtice or of freedom? Two 


things, I think, will be allowed to belong to a man 
by the moſt ſacred right, his purſe, and his opinion. 
Jo tax a man without his conſent, is to plunder 
him. But is it not infinitely more tyrannical to 
forbid the operation of his mind, and to rob him 


of that right of eſtimation and diſcrimination 


which every man, and even many animals, poſſeſs 
from Nature, and which of all things ſhould be 
free and ſpontaneous ? Here, however, under the 


5 character of a Miniſter, or with the more auguſt 


appellation of Monarch, a man comes forward, and 

ang round the neck of another man a red or 
ps bon, or affixing to his breaſt ſome gintering 
toy: Bebold !” he exclaims, a GREAT MAN 
But let not your ſaucy thoughts dare to eſtimate 
the work of my hands; let it ſuffice to tell you, 
here is a great man approach him like ſome terri- 
ble animal, with much round- about reverence; 
addreſs him in terms of circumlocution, fearfully 


circumſpect; call him your Lord, even if 04 


ſhould be the loweſt lacquey in my preſence 3 


and ſalute him by the title of his Grace, his High- 
neſs, his Excellency, were he the verieſt dunce, or 
the moſt abandoned wretch in my dominions !“ 
What a barbarous refinement of tyranny is this! 


But you are not bound, it will be ſaid, you are not 
bound to any thing more than the mere exterior 
ymbols of reſpect; your inward ſentiments may 


"Þreath the moſt profound contempt, at the very 
. moment 


moment that your outward deportment beſpeaks 
the moſt profound veneration. This, indeed, is 


the privilege of a ſlave, to curſe in his heart che 
hand which he kiſſes with oſtentatious reſpect. 
But is it then a ſmall grievance to be compelled to 
act the hypocrite, to counterfeit eſteem, and to 
make one's lips and geſtures give the lie to his 
conſcience? Thus it is that we impoſe upon our 
necks the yoke of diſſimulation.— Hence the de- 
filement of the public manners; hence the perpe- 
tual interchange of ſycophancy, which perverts the 
ſocial converſe of men; hence that leaven of du- 


plicity, which impoiſons the common intercourſe 


of life, and which renders our language a lie, our 
lives a labyrinth of deceit. Thus we find the 
eſtabliſhment of a privileged caſt of men incom- 
patible, not only with freedom, but with Bad 


moxals. 
But, fondly and childiſhly attached to the plare 


of diſtinctions, to the ſplendid baubles of nobility, 


ſome people perhaps will ſay, we acknowledge the 


abſurdity of laviſhing titles at the caprice of an in- 


dividual : But cannot you let us have a virtuous 
Nobleſſe, created by the voice of the people? No, 
certainly; and for this obvious reafon, that the voice 


of the people cannot give permanency to the cha- 


racters of men. The citizen who yeſterday ſaved the 
Capital, and reſcued from Barbarian bondage his 
native land, may to-morrow conſpire againſt his 
country, and fully his civic crown in the peſtiferous 
tabernacles of treaſon. 

Beſides, nothing tends more to corrupt the mind 
than titles of honour; nothing is ſo apt to overſet 
the frail bark of human underſtanding. Call a 


man henosrable, and he will conceive himſelf privi- 




leged to buy and ſell his fellow-creatures, like ſheep or 
oxen at a fair: ſalute him, © My Lord,” he will 


look down upon you with contempt : addreſs him, 


« Your Highneſs,” he will imagine that you were 


made merely to maintain his hounds and his 


Wes; but if you approach him with the appel- 
lation of Majeſty, - down upon your bended knees 
and ſupplicate his mercy; for with nothing leſs than 


mountains of treaſure and rivers of blood will Mon- 
ſter Royalty be appeaſed ! 


Ihus it is neceſſary, for the good of ſociety, that 


the eſtimation of ay individual ſhould ever de- 
pend upon the continued teſtimony of his life, and 


the probation of his fellow-citizens. The appro- 


bation of his fellow-citizens will convey to his 
heart a felicity, which the ſmiles of Princes never 
-could beſtow, and raiſe his ſoul to a height which 
the minions of Monarchs never could attain ; at his 
demiſe the gratitude of the people will place the 


patriot among the gods. 
In ſhort, in a State really free, a privileged caſt of 
men cannot poſſibly exiſt; for it could never enter 


into the minds of free people to eſtabliſh ſo abſurd. 
a barrier between man and man. In a free State, 
there can be but one claſs of men, which is that of 
the citizen; as there is but one will, which is that 
of the people. No ſooner was the French nation 


fairly repreſented, than the order of the Nobleſſe was 
and whenever wa ra of this country 
ta 


hall obtain an equal repreſentation, our Barons | 


muſt alſo bid adieu to their political exiſtence. 
ſurely in the real bleſſing of equality, and in 


the manly ſpirit of independence, they will find 


an ample compenſation for thoſe Gothic badges of 


23 inſolence, ud for that vain 1 


E 
of courtly bondage, which degrades, while it ren- 
ders them at the ſame time an object of merited 
malevolence. | | . 
Since it clearly appears that the people are not 
repreſented either by the King or by the Houſe of 
Lords, let us next examine, Whether or not they 
are repreſented by the Houſe of Commons? In the 
firſt place, then, the Houſe of Commons are choſen 
by a number of Electors, not exceeding, at a very 
extravagant calculation, an hundredth part of the 
people of Great-Britain. Af beſt, therefore, the 
Houſe of Commons can repreſent only an Ariſto- 
cracy, conſiſting of an hundreth part of the people. 
But even this domineering Ariſtocracy are not 
fairly repreſented by the Houſe of Commons; for, 
ſo unequally is the repreſentation diſtributed, that 
1n ſome places half a dozen individuals have the 
privilege of ſending two Members to Parliament ; 
while in other places, this privilege is diluted 
among 50 or 100,000 Electors. From this farci- 
cal mode of election, it is eaſy to conceive by what 
means the whole repreſentation of this country has 
fallen into the hands of a few great families ; and 
that ſeats in the Houſe of Commons, as Mr. Horne 
Tooke obſerves, are bought and fold like ſtalls for 
cattle at a fair. : 
„ Yes,” fays Mr. Burke, but the very ive- 
quality of repreſentation, which is ſo fooliſhly com- 
plained of, 1s, perhaps, the very thing that prevents 
us from thinking or acting as Members for diſ- 
tricts. Cornwall elects as many Members as all 
Scotland. But is Cornwall better taken care of than 
I be meaning of this ſubtile argument, if it has 
any meaning at all, amounts to this: that the 
Members of Parliament, not being elected by the 



weedle, than for a rich man to enter into the 


E 


diſtricts from which they are ſent, but by a ſmall 
number of individuals, do not conſequently repre- 
{ſent one diſtrict more than another ;—a very fair 
inference, certainly, but which ought to have 
been carried a little farther: ſince, = the fame 


Treaſon, we may with equal logic conclude, that 


neither do they repreſent one country more than 
another ; England, more than France ; nor the na- 
tives of Great-Britain, more than the negroes of 
Madagaſcar. | 

But even this phantom of election is rendered 
fall more illuſive, by the limitations preſcribed to 
the choice of the ſmall portion of thoſe who have 
in this country the right of voting: I mean, the 
regulation of Parliament, which narrows the choice 
of the electors to a certain circle of the Ariſto- 
cracy, conſiſting of men poſſeſſed of at leaſt three 
hundred pounds fer annum (though, in fact, to 
obtain admiſſion into that Aſſembly, an income 
much more conſiderable is required). Now, to ſay 


nothing of the ſcandalous immorality of this regu- 


lation, which degrades and ſtigmatizes a ſtate of 
poverty, almoſt always the portion of liberal and of 


honeſt minds; for that to hoard up wealth, and to 


retain, at the ſame time, the fund of probity undi- 


miniſhed, is a thing impoſſible, I will not fay ; but 


to the experience, and to the conſcience of this 
Aſſembly I appeal, whether it be not a thing ex- 
tremely difficult indeed * But not, I ſay, to inſiſt 
on the ſcandalous immorality of a regulation, which 


ſtigmatizes an honourable ſtate of poverty, and 


* For it is eaſier for a camel to go 8 the eye of a 
ingdom of God. 
St. Luke, C. xviu, V. 25. 

which, by holding up to our view wealth as the 


criterion of worth, debauches the people, and im- 
poiſons the public mind with a falſe opinion of the 
excellence of riches; an opinion that is the cauſe of 
almoſt all the diſorders that diſturb the peace of 
ſociety : without, I ſay, inſiſting at preſent on that 
important point, I cannot help remarking, and re- 
marking wich indignation, the cruel, the execrable 
injuſtice of committing the deareſt intereſts of the 
3 to the hands of thoſe who JON by their 
miſery, and who fatten on their di 

flock to be repreſented by wolves? Can the mono- 
polizers of land, the monopolizers of money, the 
monopolizers of trafic, repreſent a people that are 
depreſſed, and. cruſhed, and even famiſhed by the 
monopolies of money, of trafic, and of land? 

How can the natives of Nova Zembla be repre- 


ſented by the inhabitants of Arabia, the happy? 


or, Can thoſe who baſk in the ſunſhine of fortune, 
and who recline in the lap of pleaſure, repreſent 
the children of toil, who ſhiver in the frigid zone 
of miſery, and who pine in the bleak abodes of 
want? When, in order to repreſent a ſuffering hu- 
manity, the God of heavenly love deſcended upon 
earth, he became a man of ſorrows, and was ac- 
quainted with grief ;” but among us no man is ac- 
counted fit to repreſent the people, except he be 


lifted above their condition, and a ſtranger to their 


diſtreſſes. The people muſt be repreſented by men 
who diſdain to be numbered with the people; men 
who make poverty a perpetual theme of ridicule 


and reproach ; men who delight in the degradation 


of the people; eſteeming themſelves wretched, if 
they cannot look round on a legion of lacqueys ; and 
ruined, except they can roll at eaſe in their chariots 
RE 1 of pride, to daſh the dirt in the face of their fel- 
low-men. Hence it 1s that the repreſentation, as 
it 15 called, of this country is engrofled by thoſe de- 
vourers of the people; who, adding farm to farm, in- 
heritance to inheritance, and monopoly to monopo- 
ly, have deprived their brethren of the common birth- 
right of Nature; and reduced their equals to a con- 
dition little better than the lot of the domeſtic brutes, 
that ſink beneath the unjuſt burthens of avarice, 
and ſmart inceſſantly to the cruel ſtripes of drunken 
arrogance. They have divided the earth among 
/ them, as if it were the patrimony of a few indivi- 
duals, and not the common inheritance of the hu- 
man race. Defrauded, even before their birth, of 
their ſhare of the genial gifts of Nature, entire ge- 
nerations riſe and ſink again into the earth, with- 
' out having proved a ſingle joy, or taſted, in their 
; Cheerleſs journey through life, other beverage than 
the bitter potion of toil, and pain, and diſappoint- 
ment. 

Methinks I ſee—and my ſoul is moved with 
compaſſion at the fight—I ſee the human race 
rolling down the tide of ages, and paſſing in 
quick ſucceſſion to the gaol of mortality. Their 
meagre looks are marked with anxiety and care ; 
no beam of hope illumes their hollow eyes ; 
their limbs, lean and diſtorted with exceſſive 
toil, are ſtained with the ſordidneſs of want.— 
In the midſt, and high raiſed above the reſt, ride 
a revel rout, fat and ſleek, and ſhining with good 
cheer: on every fide they throw their harpy hands; 
they ſeize the ſubſtance of the poor; they get 
drunk with his blood ; they pamper their very dogs 


with the fleſh of the needy; they tread down the 


weak, like ſtubble under their horſes' hoots ; they * 
paſs on with the noiſe of much mirth ; they _— 
Fs 


with mockery the lamentation of the oppreſſed; to 
the moving complaints of the poor they reply, with 
cruel ries toy and ſay:— “ The people muſt re- 
ſpe& that property of which they cannot partake. 
They muſt labour to obtain what by labour they 
can obtain; and when they find, as they com- 
monly do, the ſucceſs diſproportioned to their en- 
deavour, they muſt be taught their conſolation in 
the final proportions of eternal juſtice &. | 

O, cruel and inhuman decree ! che great maſs 
of mankind muſt pine in perpetual indigence, in 


order that the unfeeling few may wallow in wealth! 


They muſt pine, but they muſt not mourn over 
their miſeries. They muſt endure with patience 


the hard heaping up of diſtreſs ; but they muſt nor 


ſtir a finger to eaſe the burchen that bows them 
down to the earth. And this ſhall be their only 
_ conſolation, that, in ſome future ſtate of things, 
their oppreflors ſhall ſuffer tenfold the pains which 
now they inflict. And, indeed, if mortal eye could 
dive into the deep miſts of futurity; if to mortal ear 
the voice of the world to come could aſcend; if the 
ſpectres of horror were viſible to our view; if we could 
hear the dread warning of the bottomleſs abyſs; if 
we ſaw the tyrant ſtretched upon the wheel, and 
heard the ſhrieks of the ſycophant who had perverted 


the gift of eloquence to juſtify oppreſſion, and to 


extinguiſh the light of liberty in the foul (and 
ſurely, if mortal guilt can merit immortality of 
pain, this and no other muſt be the crime); then, 
indeed, we ſhould have an example- that. would 
cauſe the oppreffor to ſhrink from his murderous 
meditation, a leſſon that would deter from pur- 


poſed wrong the ſons of violence; the lords of the 


'+ Burke's Reflections on the French Revolution. 



earth would learn juſtice, and reverence the will 
of God *. But far, alas! from human ken, are 
removed the decrees of Fate ! On the dubious and 
fluctuating contemplation of futurity, the thick 
clouds of darkneſs roll impervious to the feeble ray 
of human reaſon. The timid and conſcientious 
multitude diſcern, amid the deep miſt of uncertain- 
ty, forms of fear, and menacing miniſters.of wrath: 
but, drunk with the beverage of proſperity, the op- 
preſſors of the poor ſay to themſelves, It is the tale 
of ignorance, the crude exhalation of a dream, 
which the firſt beam of the morning will diſſipate; 
which the dawn of reaſon chaſes from the mind! 
But I return, Mr. Chairman, from this digreſſion, 
which, I hope, this Aſſembly will pardon, and 
which, I doubt not, they participate with me againſt 
thoſe cruel and laviſh doctrines which a certain 
Don Quixote of deſpotiſm has lately dared to vin- 
dicate to the world. I return to the repreſentation 
of Great-Britain. 555 | 
If che clamours of the ſlaves in the Weſt-Indies, 
(who are, as we are told by the advocates of that 
trade, almaſt as wretched as the labouring poor of 
England) ſhould compel the Engliſh government 
to impart to them alſo the bleſſings of the Britiſh 
Conſtitution, and the negro-drivers ſhould accord- 
ingly receive the privilege of electing from the 
colonial planters a certain number of deputies to 
repreſent the negroes, In what manner do we ſup- 
poſe would this contribute to better the condition 
of the ſlaves ? And is not this preciſely the ſtate of 
repreſentation in Great-Britain, where the rich, or 
* « Diſcite juſtitiam moniti, nec temnere divos.” 
; | | VigetL. 
the dependents of the rich, elect from a claſs of men 


full richer than chemſelves the repreſentatives of the 


poor? But why ſhould we conſume time in talking 
of the repreſentation of the people, which, as we are 
informed by Mr. Burke, is not even an object of 
the Englith Conſtitution. The perpetuation of 

property in our families, ſays he, is the moſt valu- 
able and intereſting circumſtance. attending it (re- 
preſentation) ; that which demonſtrates moſt of a 
benevolent diſpoſition in its owners,'and that which 
tends moſt to the perpetuation of ſociety itſelf. 
The poſſeſſors of family-wealth, and of the diſtinc- 
tion which attends hereditary poſſeſſion (as moit 
concerned in it), are the natural ſecurities for this 
tranſmiſſion. With us the Houſe of Peers is 
formed upon this principle: It is wholly compoſed 
of hereditary property and hereditary diſtinction; 
and made therefore the third of the legiſlature; and 
in the laſt event, the ſole judge of all property in 
all its ſub-diviſions. The Houſe of Commons, too, 
though not necetlarily, yer in fact is n ſo in 
the far greater part. 


Me readily agree wich Mr. Burke, chat to Toe 


ſent the people could never be the ſcope or object 
of the Houfes of Lords and Commons; who are, as 
he obſerves, wholly, or in the far greater parts 


compoſed of hereditary property and hereditary diſ- 


tinction.” But we cannot poſhbly conceive What he 
means, when he tells us, that the perpetuation and 


accumulation of property, © great maſſes of pro- 


Perty; that is to ſay, the depriving a great many of 
their little all, in order to heap up an enormous 
fortune for a few; e can indicate a benevolent diſpo- 
ſition? nor how the perpetuation of ſociety can be 


promoted, by ſubſtracting from our feet 45 very | 


baſe of population, my itſelf? 
W an 15 | Thels 


[ 20 ] 
Theſe are ſublime flights indeed, and far beyond 


5 che reach of common ſenſe. It muſt, however, be 


confeſſed, that the Houſes of Lords and Commons 
have never loſt ſight of the main end of their inſti- 
tution, the accumulation and perpetuation of pro- 
perty, © great maſſes of property”. Of this laud- 
able attention to the grand intereſt of monopoly, 
ſeveral very curious examples might be given from 
the annals of England for the laſt thirty or forty 
years paſt. I ſhall produce two late inſtances that 
came under my own obſervation. The firſt 1s, 
the encloſure of the commons. I happened to be 
preſent, in the Houſe of Commons, when a bill of 
that nature was brought into the Houſe. Having 
left England at a very early age, and being engaged 
in a life too active to permit political enquiries, 
I had, like other young men, taken it for granted 
that the Britiſh Conſtitution was the very model of 
legiſlative wiſdom. I therefore liſtened with much 
pleaſure to the decorous preamble of the bill, which 
profeſſed to have for its ſole object the improve- 
ment of agriculture ; and I imagined to myſelf, that 
the Houſe of Commons were going to divide the 
common Jands among the poor. But what was 
my aſtoniſhment and my indignation, when, by the 
ada of the bill, I found that the poor and 
indigent were to be driven from the commons ; and 
that the land which before was common to all, was 
now to become the excluſive property of the rich! 
'—The honourable Houſe of Commons vanithed 
from my fight; and I faw in its ſtead a den of 
thieves, plotting in their midnight confpiracies the 
murder of the innocent, and the ruin of the father- 
leſs and the widow! ' Wo | 
The next inſtance I have to en is a bill 


entitled, if I rightly Ry: For the better 
by Wy Protection 





Protection of Nurſeries.” The Gentlemen, hav- 
ing great maſſes of property, found that their 
immenſe poſſeſſions were not enough protected 
1 the pilfering rogues, whom the deprivation 


all property had compelled to make free with _ 
the property of others; and concluding, that fimple 


tranſportation did not ſuſficiently expiate the horrid 
crime of cutting a cabbage for the ſuſtenance, 
perhaps, of a'ſtarving family, the konourable Mem- 
bers ordained the common penalty for all offences 
againſt the great maſſes of property, that of being 
hanged, like a dog, by the neck. 

This decree paſſed with the moſt ruffian-like 
unanimity, if we make one honourable exception in 
favour of Sir James Johnſtone, who roſe up, with 
the feelings of a man, to proteſt againſt a cruel ad- 
dition to laws of which the ſanguinary rigour 
ſeemed to be levelled ſolely againſt the poor and 
the oppreſſed. My ſenſations on this occaſion I 


will not attempt to deſcribe ; but as I retired, 1 


could not help eyeing wiſhfully the lamp- irons 
which a provident architect has planted thick about 
the dark inlets of the Houſe. 


I had forgot to mention, that in the courſe of | 


the ſhort debate that took place on this ſubject, 
it appeared that the greater part of the vegtables 
hawked about town in carts and hurdles was pur- 


loined from the < great maſſes of property” in the 


environs of the city ; a circumſtance of which the 
upright advocates of the pendulous ſyſtem did not 
fail to take advantage. At the ſame time, however, 


appeared another circumſtance, of which no no- 


tice whatever was taken; which was, that ſuch 
was the monopoly of garden- ground about the 


city, that, but for this trade of pilfering, the 


poor of the capital could ſcarcely ever afford to 


correct, 




correct, by a little vegetable juice, their cada- 
verous diet. Hence it is, that although the poſſeſ- 
ſors of © great maſſes of property” condemn ⁊0 death 
thoſe petty depredators, the people, diſpoiled of all 
property, ſeldom fail to regard them as the heroes 
and the martyrs of liberty, the unfortunate champions 
of the indefeaſible rights of man. Their progreſs to 
to the place of execution is purſued by admiring 
multitudes; many a fair eye approves the manly 
limbs of the youth, and weeps their untimely fate; 
the bold, the ſubtile actions of their life; their in- 
trepidity in the hour of death become the theme of 
ſtrains that command applauſe, and provoke imita- 
tion. Thus it is that a government, oppreſſive and 
unjuſt, overturns the very foundation of morality, 
and confounds in the minds of the people the firſt 
notions of right and wrong. | | 
fut it is neceffary,” Hes Mr. Burke, “to de- 
fend © the great maſſes of property,” which are the 
prinicpal object of repreſentation in the Parliament 
of England. But what if we ſhould prove that, fo 
far from repreſenting property, the Parliament of 
England have overturned all property. — What 
is property? Property is ſomething which a man 
makes his ( proprium), by communicating to it the 
ſweat of his brow, or the forms of his genius; it is 
ſomething that belongs to a man, that is, lies along- 
ſide of him, or is ſomehow or other attached to 
him: and this, in all languages, is the natural ſenſe, 
and the true etymology of the word property. 
According to this definition, the monopoliſts . of 
great maſſes of property,” who alſo arrogate to 
themſelves the exclufive monopoly of making laws, 
are men of no property whatever. 8 
They neither plow nor ſow, and yet they reap 

& The fat of all the land, and fuck the poor,” — 


The 


4 443 


The poor, who are the true proprietors, the op- 
preſſed poor, who communicate to matter the 
ſweat of their brow, and the forms of their genius; 
without which matter is not peculiar to any, but 
common to all. 

I come now to another obſervation of Mr. 
Burke's: Nothing,” ſays he, © is a due and ade- 
quate repreſentation of a ſtate, that does not repre- 
ſent its abilities as well as its property.” Where 
then {hall we look for this repreſentation of ability? 
In the Houſe of Lords? O! crime againſt de- 
corum! What occaſion has a Lord for ability? 
Is he not born a Legiſlator ? In the Houſe of . 
Commons ? But what need has a man for abilities "3 
who gives a fair price for his place, or receives it as 1 
an appendix to his eſtate? It ĩs true, there are about k 
halt a dozen great orators in the Houſe of Com- . 
mons ; and 1 a man were to form an eſtimate of h 
their abilities from the ſycophancy of Engliſh prints, 
he would be apt to imagine that, like certain Bar- 
barians, ſaid to ſwallow the brains of thoſe whom 
they plunder and aflafſinae, they had encreaſed their 
underſtanding to a moſt gigantic ſize at the ex- 
pence of a people brutified and degraded. . On a 

nearer inſpection, however, we diſcover them to be 
mere men of wind, the plant mouth-pieces of a 
miniſter, on one hand; and on the other, the do- 
cile organs of a powerful conſpiracy of men poſſeſ- 
ſing © great maſſes of property.“ 7 

I ſhall now prove, by a definitive and concluſive * 
argument, that the Houſe of Commons never did, |" 
nor ever can, repreſent the people. The Houle of | 
Commons form only one-thigg part of the Legiſla- 1 
ture; but whenever the people are fairly repreſented, 
they will not form one-third part only, but the whole 

of the Legiſlature ; ; for the will of a free people is 
the 


— — 


WE? 


| 24 71 


the law. This is an argument equal in certainty 
to the mathematical demonſtration, that a part is 
not ſo great as the whole. | | 

Hence, then, it 1s evident, 

1it. That the Houſe of Commons do not re- 
preſent the people. . 

2dly. That they do not repreſent property, ſince 
they confiſt of the enemies of all property, the mo- 
nopoliſts. 

z adly. Neither do they r ability; for abili- 
ties are no title of admiſſion to the character of Le- 
giſlator. With a pittance of intellect ſcarcely ſuf- 
ficient to diſtinguiſh him from the mule on which 
he rides, a man may enter into the Houſe of Com- 
mons; but he cannot arrive there without a quali- 
fication of three hundred pounds per annum.— 
Thoſe generous ſouls, whom the love of mental 

wealth ſublimes above the ſordid ſearch of ore, are 
excluded from any ſhare in that for which they are 
moſt fit, the management of government; while 
from the filth of every dirty ſpeculation, the gro- 
velling ſons of gain can crawl with eaſe into the 
Houle. The buſineſs of making laws is commit- 
ted t bullock-contractors, ſlave-merchants, gam- 
blers, brokers, money-changers; and hence it is, 
that every barbarous prejudice and ferocious uſurpa- 
tion are defended in that Houſe with the moſt un- 
feeling tenacity ; while with ridicule and ſcorn the 
dictates of mercy, reaſon, and common: ſenſe, are 
conſtantly repulſed. Saviour of the world! When 
wilt thou 51 ? When ſhall the Pxop LE expel, with 
a ſcourge, that impure herd of buyers and ſellers, 
who have converted into a den of — che fanc- | 
tuary of the law ? | 

Having proved that the people are not repre- 
ſented by the King, nor the Houſe of Commons, 
nor by the Lords, it follows of courſe that they 
are not repreſented at all. Some election-monger, 
perhaps, will reply, that though the King, the 
Lords, and Commons, do not ſeparately repreſent 
the people, yet that joined together in Parliament, 
they are the Repreſentatives of the people. In 
anſwer to this, it will be quite ſufficient to produce 
this fact, that in Great- Britain, confiſting of eight 
millions of inhabitants, 6087 perſons elect a ma- 
jority of the Houſe of Commons; or, in other 
words, eight millions of inhabitants are every ſeven 
years brought to market and ſold, like cattle at a 
fair, by 6987 individuals * 

Perhaps the parliamentary ſophiſt will {till urge, 
that although the people be not rea/ly repreſented in 
Parliament, yet they are virtually repreſented there. 

And what means this cant phraſe of virtual repre- 
ſentation ? It is that fort of repreſentation, we ſhall 

be toi, by which Adam repreſented the human 
race. And as the event proved, a very damnable 
mode of repreſentation it was. 

But we appeal, ſay the borough-jobbers, we ap- 
peal to the virtual effects of this repreſentation ; ef- 
fects as ſalutary as the moſt equal repreſentation 
could poſſibly produce. And what are the effects 
of this virtual repreſentation ?— A venal Parlia- 
ment, a corrupt Ariſtocracy, an oppreſſed People. 


But corruption, they reply, is an eſſential ingredient 
of good government, and the accumulation of 


taxes à fimalus to public induſtry. According to 


this mode of reaſoning, diſeaſe is better than health 


* This is clearly made out in the Political Diſquiſitions, Vol. I. 
B. ii, C. 4. ; a work full of important and uſeful inſtruction. 



vice better than virtue, and ſlavery ſuperior to free- 
dom. But if to increaſe the neceſſity of labour, and to 
render mankind the mere drudges of the State, be 
the grand purpoſe of Government, Why do they not 
introduce among us that effectual fimulus to in- 
duſtry; I mean the ſcourge which they have dared to 
ſanction againſt the backs of our fellou- creatures in 
another quarter of the globe? Why do they not, 
by one bold blow, add to the grand monopoly of the 
rich the little remains of landed property which the 
people are ſtill permitted to poſſeſs? Why do they 
not at once deprive us of that ſlender portion which 
the progreſſive inroads of taxation have not wreſted 
from our hands? They have reduced us to the 
hard condition of daily labourers ; they have im- 
poſed upon our necks the cruel neceſſity of eternal 
toil; they have even forced us to the contumelious 
condition of caterers for their vices; from the very 
dunghill of their infamy, have they compelled us to 
dig the means of our ſubliſtence. They have made 
us a people of pedlars, of taylors, of weavers, of 
barbers, of brokers, of lacqueys, of gamblers, of 
man-milliners; and, if ought can derogate ſtill more 
from the dignity of man, they have ewen poi- 
ſoned the ſolace of human life, and polluted, by 
their imperious luſts, the ſource of domeftic confo- 
lation ; they have debauched the - female mind, 
and poured forth on our ſtreets a flood of proſtitu- 
tion. Would to God that, by depriving us of every 
ſpecies of free-will, they would relieve us from the 
x cpa 4 of a Ee wing conſent to ſuch enormities ; 
us to the mere automaton Rate of 

+ 6 bag hes oy would fave 3 from the ſoul - ſinking 
e of being in any reſpect acceſſary to things 
which . to act 4 to ſuffer, are alike diſgrace- 


ful to human nature! — But no; they are two well 
convinced 

convinced how much this phantom of freedom 
favours the purpoſes of peculation; and they know 
that under the diſguiſe of liberty, they have dared 
to carry their oppreſſion farther than ever down- 
right deſpotiſm would have ventured to proceed &. 
I defy any perſon to produce, from the moſt deſ- 
potic States, an inſtance of a nation labouring un- 
der ſuch accumulated taxes and conſequent diſtreſs, 


as that which preſſes upon the people of Great-Bri- 


tain. One- half of the meaſure of our grievances 
was found ſufficient to overthrow the fabric of 
French tyranny ; one-half of the miſery under 
which we groan would raiſe, in the moſt abſolute 
governments of Aſſia, a cry of © Vengeance !” which 
would hurl the tyrant from his throne. | 


I have travelled over a large portion of the em- 


ire of Turkey, one of the moſt diſpotic countries 
in the world ; and the relative fituation of the peo- 
ple of Turkey and that of England appears to me 
to ſtand nearly as follows :—In Turkey, I found that 
a peaſant or labouring mechanic, by three or four 
days moderate labour in the week, could maintain 
two, and ſometimes three or four, wives, and a nu- 
merous family of children.—In England, on the 
contrary, the peaſant or mechanic 1s often deterred 
from marriage by the difficulty of obtaining bread ; 
and ſhould he venture upon a wife, he finds that 


* This is a fact which ſeveral of the Members of Parliament 


have not ſcrupled to confeſs. On a late debate in the Houſe 
of Commons, on the Ruſſian war, 

Sir James St. Clair Erſkine was ſorry to obſerve, that the 
« Houſe of Commons was become a mere engine in the hands 
« of the Miniſter, for the purpoſe of extorting the money ſrom 
« the people under the ſhew and phantom of freedom, and for 
s oppreſling the people with taxes; which, were he poſſeſſed of 
« abſolute power, he would not dare to impoſe.” —  _ 

LE. | GAZETTEER, 16th April. 


ſix days inceſſant labour ſcarcely enable him to fup- 
port his family through the week. 

In Turkey, the great body of the 8 parti- 
cipate largely in all the natural productions of the 
country. In England, on the contrary, the peaſant 
or labouring mechanic is ſeldom permitted to in- 
dulge in the comforts of his climate, procured as 
they are by the labour of his hands: a few articles 
of abſolute neceſſity compoſe his coarſe and ſcanty 
fare; butter (eſpecially ſince the poor have been 
legally robbed of the right of common) very rarely 
forms a part of his food, except, perhaps, that un- 
v holeſome and unpalatable ſpecies of butter which 
ſalt arreſts in a certain ſtate eee 1 cheeſe, 
except of the drieſt and moſt inſipid ſort, ſeldom 
enters his lips; and with a kind of corrupt water, 

called ſmall beer, inſtead of the natural beverage of 
milk, he is forced to feed his unfortunate progeny. 
In Turkey, a man may be poor with impunity : a 
moderate man may fit down unmoleſted, in the 
philoſophic enjoyments of temperance and leiſure, 
made grateful by the healthful interchange of toil 
without fatigue. But in England, where the poor 
are perſecuted as much as they are deſpiſed, relaxa- 
tion from labour is a bleſſing which they never can 
enjoy. In ſuch a country as this, it would be in 
vain for a man to ſay, Far removed from the 
paths of ambition are my deſires; I am ſatisfied 
with the ſimple produce of my field. Why, then, 
ſhould I toil for ever?“ „But you muſt labour 
for me !” cries his Grace the Archbiſhop.— And 
for me!” cries the Exciſeman.— And for me! 
ſays the Cuſtom-houſe- officer. And for me 
and for me and for me!” exclaim a crowd of 
Court Paraſites, and Royal Mermidons; ſo that 
alter ſubmitting to their claims, and ſatisfying the 

demands 


2 


demands of the landed penſioner, the poor man 


finds that, of fix days inceſſant toil, nothing re- 


mains to himſelf and his unhappy family but a 
little black bread to moiſten with their tears. 
Well may he fay, in the words of a ſacred writer, 
+ Thar which the palmer-worm hath left, hath the 

locuſt eaten; and that which the locuſt hath left, 
hath the tankerowodch eaten; and that which che 
canker- worm hath leſt, hath the caterpillar eaten. 


It to thoſe manifold evils we add a piague. 


more deſtructive ſtill than all the viſitations of 
divine wrath that fell upon the land of Pharoah ; 
I mean thoſe harpy hordes of lawyers who infeſt 
every corner of the land, and impoiſon with 
- anxiety and care every action of our lives. If we 
conſider, I fay, the poor man fleeced by the cour- 
tier, decimated by the prieſt, flead alive by the 
lawyer, and hunted down by all the hounds of 
taxation, can we wonder that, reduced to chuſe 
between the workhouſe and the gibbet, he ſhould 
often, even an ignominious exit, prefer to the monkiſn 
monotony of that cold receptacle of indigence; 
where, cut off from the conſolation of his kindred, 
and fevered from every ſolace of life, he 1s oblig- 
ed to ſwallow with bitterneſs of ſoul the unwil- 
ling alms of his impoveriſhed fellow-citizens ; and, 
under the harſh controul of a maſter, drags along, 
by the irkſome rules of methodized wretchedneſs, 
a loathſome, uſeleſs, vilified exiſtence ? + 
Sometimes, lixe the ſuicide African, the poor 
perſecuted wretch lets looſe his free-born ſoul, and 
rejoices to give his unfeeling oppreſſors the ſlip in 
the middle- paſſage of his miſery. —Happier, then, 
Oh! far more happy, than when the keen ſenſe of 
his wrongs ferments in his brain, ſtings him to 


madneſs, and degrades him below the brute. 
Theſe 

Theſe are not, as ignorance and affectation pre- 
tend; theſe are not the ſad effects of a gloomy 
clime. For to what country has Nature been more 
prodigal of her bleſſings? And where, O my native 
land] does the laughing plain untold fo rich an har- 
veſt ? And where do hills ſo green lift their gay tops 
amid clouds fo drunk with the ſun But a cruel ſyſ- 
tem of rapine intercepts the bleſſings which Nature 
ſhowers upon the ſoil; and a vile confpiracy of 
public robbers have ſo tamed and ſubdued the 
ſpirit of the natives, that every raſcally collector 
of taxes extorts, without fear, from every man that 
which ſhould be the nouriſhment of his family *. 
What, then, is the reaſon that the balance of en- 
zoyment ſhould preponderate ſo much in the ſcale of 
deipotiſm ? The reaſon is plainly this: In Turkey, 
the arm of deſpotiſm bears hard upon the rich; in 
England, the whole weight of ariſtocracy falls heavy 
on the poor. Does the Paſcha of a province ſtand 
in need of money? He ſends for a dozen of opu- 
lent infidel merchants, Chriſtians or Jews, them 
he ſpunges without ceremony; and then returns 
them to the tide of traffic, to imbibe freſh wealth, 
and to fatten for another ſqueeze. This 1s cer- 
tainly an act of oppreſſion, but very limited, how- 
ever, in its operation; and by which the great maſs 
of public felicity is very little diminiſhed. In Eng- 
land, on the contrary, where an ariſtocracy of wealth 
prevails over all, the few rich flouriſh, it is true, 
and riot in every poſſible enjoyment; but the great 
maſs of the people are cruelly harraſſed and oppreſ- 
ſed. In Turkey, the Tyger Deſpotiſm ſprings upon 
his ſingle victim, and gluts himſelf with carnage; but 
in England, the monſter Ariſt extending over 
the devoted million her ten thouſand fangs, ſucks 
* Sydney on Government. PazT II. 


from 


131 
from every pore of the people a never-ceaſing ſtream 
of blood. In Turkey, the meaſure of ſufferance is 


determined by the common ſenſe and common feel- 
ings of mankind : particular acts of ſtate-oppreſ- 


ſion are permitted to pais with impunity ; but the 


moment that the tyrant begins to lay a. heavy hand 
upon the many, the Muſſulmans run inſtantly to 
arms; and the deſpot, if not deprived of life, is at 
leaſt driven from his government. But in England, 
the nation appear to have loſt every natural criterion 
of right and wrong: they cannot tell whether they 
are oppreſſed or not, without confulting certain 
muſty records, which form the baſis of what they 
call their Conſtitution ; a thing which nobody un- 
derſtands, and which ſerves only to afford their po- 
licicians a ſubject of eternal wrangling, and their Mi- 
niſters an opportunity of plundering the people 
without riſque. 
We will admit, ſay the borough-mongers, that 


ſome abuſes have crept into the government of this 


country. But then we contend that the Conſtitution 


_ of England, in its purity, is eſtabliſhed on the moſt 
perfect principles of freedom. Vain and fallacious 
ſuppoſition ! which deludes the multitude, and has 
impeded, more than any other cauſe, the progreſs of 
liberty in Great-Britain. On what is your boaſted 
Conſtitution eſtabliſhed ? On the Magna Charta, 
and the Petition of the Bill of Rights. Is then the 
whole fabric of Engliſh freedom founded on a piece 
of parchment, which your barbarian Barons forced 
from the reluctant hand of a feeble tyrant ? Have 
you no better warrant for your liberty, than the 
gracious pleaſure of an alien Prince, who granted 
our petition, and ſubſcribed your BiLt of 
13 ? —Alas! theſe are puny pretenſions to 
liberty; pretenſions by which you can never merit 
the name of a Free People ; an appellation henceforward thoſe only can claim who ſcorn to 
ground their conſtitution on any other baſis but 
the natural and indefeaſible Ricars of Max. 

I ſhall be told, perhaps, that although we do not; 
Ike the French nation, derive from firſt Principles 
the maxims of our Conſtitution, yet the liberty of 
the ſubject is admirably protected by poſitive laws; 
and then, perhaps, we hall hear a very myſterious 
ſtory about the miraculous balance of the three 
Powers, that wonderfully promote the purpoſe of 

litical weg by running counter to each 
other. In the plain fimplicity 'of my underſtand- 
ing, however, I had imagined that the end of a good 
government conſiſted in giving free and unimpeded 
operation to the . of the people; and that v hat- 
ever tended to obſtruct the operation of the public 
will, muſt proceed from uſurpation and tyranny. 
But if thoſe boaſted checks did really ever operate; 
if this government of warfare did ever practically 
exiſt, the action and re- action of fo many com- 
plicated ſprings muſt at length have worn out 
the machine; at leaſt, the preſent Government r 
conducted on principles as ſimple as can well be 

imagined. His Majeſty's Prime Miniſter comes 
down to the Houle of Commons, with meaſures 
| viouſly concerted in the King's Cabinet : he 
propoſes his Bills ; and the Houle | exclaims, What 

a prodigy of wiſdom ! He makes his motion; and 
bi motion is carried by a — majority, as virtuous 
as unbcugbi. A fimilar farce 1s carried on in the 


Houſe of Lords; and the will of the Cabinet is 
proclaimed as the will of the people, who, perhaps, 
all the while are lifting up their voice againſt — 
meaſure, and execrating its author. This is: 
thing too notorious to ſtand in need of ilaftzation. 
But, with permiſſion of the ſanctioned corpora- 
duons of politicians, we will now examine with a 
little more attention this gainful object of their 
worſhip, the Conſtitution, compoſed, as it is, of 
King, Lords, and Commons, | 

I ara no enemy to the word King; nor do I 
think it of any conſequ?nce, whether the chief ma- 


giſtrate of a State be known by the name of King, 


Emperor, Dey, Doge, or Preſident. The word 
King, Kean, Kong, or Kan, was applied in the moſt 
ancient times, and in almoſt every part of the world, 

to the chieſs of families or tribes ; they were, in 
fact, the patriarchs of an early ſtage of ſociety.— 
Thee are a ſort of Kings for whom I entertain a 
profound veneration. But there is another kind of 
King, who cannot be conſidered otherwiſe than as 
an animal of the moſt. pernicious nature, and an 
enemy of the human race. This devourer of the 
people is thus juſtly deſcribed by the Prophet Sa- 


muel ;— 


« And he ſaid, this will be the manner of the 


king that ſhall rule over you: he will take your 


ſons, and appoint them for himſelf, for his chariots, 


and to be his horſemen; and Dune {hall run before 


his chariots. 


And he will appoint him captains over thous, 


ſands, and captains over fifties ; and will ſet them 
to ear his ground, and to reap his harveſt, and to 
make his inſtruments of Vr and ru of 


his chariots. 


„And he will take your daughters to be con- 


fectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers. 


And he will take your fields, and your vine- 
yards, and your olive- yards, even the beſt of them, 


and give them to his ſervants. 


And he will take the tenth of your ſced, and 
of your vineyards, and give to his officers and to his 
ſervants. 
 And he will take your men- ſervants and your 
maid- ſervants, and your goodlieſt young men, and 
your aſſes, and put them to his work. 

e He will take the tenth of your ſheep ; ; and ye 
ſhall be his ſervants. - | 
And ye ſhall cry out in that day, becauſe of 

your king, which ye ſhall have choſen; and the 
Lord will not hear you 1n that day.” 

Now, if ſuch be the hard condition of a people 
under a King choſen by the people, What are we to 
expect from a King who, as Mr. Burke tells us, 
ſhould hold his crown in contempt of the people? 

Would it be ſurpriſing that the land were filled 
wich armed mercenaries ; that the produce of the 
field were eaten up by the locuſts of exciſe ; ; that 
the luxurious retainers of a court ſhould foreſtall 
the hopes of the huſbandman, and devour the 
bread of Cake induſtrious and the poor ? Could we 
wonder that the places of great honour and truſt 
were filled by ſycophants and ideots; or that the 
appellation of mo? noble, moſt excellent, moſt honour- 
able, were applied to perſons engaged in offices of 
ſervitude, which a man who had the ſmalleſt ſpark 
of freedom in his boſom would bluſh to ende ? 
I have heard of a Roman Emperor (his name, 
I think, was Julian) who, having ſent for a barber, 
was amazed to ſee enter his apartment a perſon 
richly drefſed, and with a ſword by his ſide. I 
ſent,” faid the aſtoniſhed Emperor (who, ſuddenly 
called from the philoſophic ſobriety of an acade- 
mic life at Athens to the government of the world 
was, as yet, unaccuſtomed to the magnificence of 
a court). I ſent,” ſaid he, . for a barber to ſhave 
me, and not for a Field-marſhal to deliberate on 
che ſtate of the army.” How much would this 
funple man of an Emperor have been aſtoniſhed 

to find, in the moſt petty Courts of modern Europe, 
the menial offices of domeſtic ſervitude performed 
by moſt noble Dukes, Earls, Counts? And how 
would his generous boſom have burned with indig- 
nation, to learn that each of thoſe prepoſterous mi- 
niſters of vanity deyoured, in the courſe of a month, 
more, perhaps, than five hundred honeſt men 
could earn in a twelvemonth by the ſweat of their 
brow ? 

It muſt certainly give the greateſt ſatisfaction to 
every lover of his country to learn, that his moſt 
gracious Majeſty entertains ſentiments not inferior 
in ſimplicity and benevolence to thoſe of the good 
Emperor juſt mentioned. He is ſaid to delight in 
the ſtory of the frugality of Spartan royalty, and to 
admire, above all, the Conſtitution of the United: 
States of America, where the Chief Magiſtrate is 
ſatisfied with a ſalary of five thouſand pounds per 
annum; and where the whole executive government 
1s conducted at the very moderate annual expence of 
ſeventy thouſand pounds. His Majeſty, I am alſo 
informed, rejoices beyond meaſure in the late glo- 

rious Revolution in France, and pants for that 
happy day when he alfo ſhall become, like Louis 
XVI. the father of a regenerated people! On that 
| glorious day, no doubt, he will thus addreſs his 
3 « My children! behold. a little 
hoard which I ſubſtracted from the prodigality of 
courtiers and the rapacity of Miniſters ; behold here 
are ten or twelve millions, a little rivulet of wealth, 
which I turned aſide from the broad ſtream of mi- 
niſterial corruption: not to flow into my ccifers 
(for how could I bear to encreaſe my ftore with 
the blood of an oppreſſed people !) but to ferti- 
lize, at ſome future day, that regenerated ſtate of 
things which I foreſaw the general corruption would 
| 1 5 Very 


1. 36 3 : 
very ſhortly produce *. That day, that happy day of 


Tenovation is now come |—take therefore this little 
treaſure (which I cheriſh merely for the good 
to which it is going to contribute); apply it to 
the faithful performance of thoſe engagements 
which we, or rather our forefathers, have contracted 
for us with the public creditor. Apply it, I ſay, 
to the extinction of the national debt; —but let us 
diſclaim, henceforward, the ruinous practice of out- 
ing the public revenues: let us gamble no 
longer with the lives and fortunes of our fellow- 
citizens; let us not lay up a fund of calamities for 
our unfortunate children; let us make no more 
flouriſh about the credit of the nation, and the credit 
of the nation! For what purpoſe has this credit 
anſwered, except to give a band of public robbers 
an eaſy acceſs to the purſes of the people? In fine, 
let us not imitate the unjuſt and unfeeling conduct 
of our fathers, who, not ſatisfied with the ſpendthrift 
diſſipation of their own eſtates, have left us allo in 
pledge for the ſad reckoning of their riots, their 
drunkenneſs, their folly !* : 
As for you, my Lords; you are, I dare ſay, 
ready to imitate my example, not only in making a 


freewill-offering of your titles (for thoſe are empty 


The difſoluteneſs of public manners in this country has 
been urged as an unſurmountable obſtacle to reformation : but 
_ a contrary inference is much more conſonant to the 3 

of hiſtory, and to the nature of things; for in the moral, as we 
as in the phyſical world, corruption is the certain fore- runner of 
regeneration. The Commonwealth of France has riſen, as 
every body knows, from the very ſink of moral depravity; and 
the Spartans were labouring under all the evils of luxury, and 
ruined by their own vices, when they committed to Lycurgus 
the reformation of the State, and agreed to eſtabliſh their virtue 
and their freedom on the beſt of all poſſible foundations, an 
equal diviſion of landed property. e 


things) 


1 


things) on the altar of general good, but alſo in de- 
lvering up to our new Sovereign (the People) 


thoſe manifold privileges, and chat laborious pro- 


curation of public affairs, which bows you down, no 
doubt, with anxiety and care. It would become 
you well at the ſame time, 95 at this criſis of dif- 
ficulty and diſtreſs, you reſtore to the common. 
weal a portion of thoſe © great maſſes of property” 
acquired by means of privileges injurious to the 
people, or ſubtracted, not ſo ſay purloined, from the 
common ſtore, and given in return for ſervices 
that reflect little credit either on your predeceſſors 
or on mine.“ 

« My Lords the Biſhops, I obſerve and applaud 
your holy impatience to ſpurn from you all thoſe 
vain decorations of worldly grandeur, and to rid 
yourſelves of thoſe tythes, thoſe pluralities, thoſe 
luxurious livings, which raiſe againſt you the curſes 
of a ſtarving poor; while they fand an infurmount- 
able obſtacle m your way, to that eminence of piety 
to which the rugged path of poverty conducted 
your apoſtolic predeceſſors. ? 

I return from this digreſſion, into which I have 
been led by the delightful anticipation of future 
good, to conſider another important point of what 
15 called the Conſtitution of England. This point 
is the non-reſponſibility of the Chief Magiſtrate. 

Either the King is poſſeſſed: of powers neceſſary 
to the conduct of Government, or he is not: if the 
latter, Is it not cruel and unjuſt to extort from the 
nation the enormous ſum of a million and a-half 

r annum for the maintenance of a mere pageant, 
not in the leaſt neceſſary to the conduct of 7 
affairs? But if he be really poſſeſſed of grea 
powers (as moſt certainly he is), why, in the name 


of common ſenſe, ſhould the Chief Magiſtrate, 
whole errors maſt, of courſe, be more pernicious 
than thoſe of the ſubordinate officers of the execu- 
tive power? Why, I ſay, ſhould he be exempted 
from that reſponſibility ro which they very juſtly 
muſt ſubmit? The King, you ſay, can do no 
wrong. Cannot the King make war? Has he 
not a power over the throats of the people? Les; 
but the Houſe of Commons hold the purſe, and 
may refuſe the ſupplies. But what avails the pri- 
vilege of holding the public purſe (were it even 
held with integrity), if the Miniſter can at any time 
commit the honour of the nation? If, by foreign 
treaties, by intrigues, by cabal, by unprovoked ho- 
{ulities, he can draw down upon you the vengeance 
of half the globe, and reduce you to the cruel necz{- 
fity of defending againſt half the world your poſſeſ- 
fions, your independence, and even your exiſtence. 
Strange infatuation ! a dirty canal cannot, with- 
out the concurrence of Parliament, be cut acroſs a 
few acres of land; but the Miniſter may open, 
when he pleaſes, the veins of the people, and bid 
the blood of the citizen flow through every quarter 
of the globe ! Should the reaſon of your Chief 
Magiſtrate ſuffer an eclipſe, and the royal maniac 
ſhould begin to ſport a little too roughly with the 
maids of honour, and to kick the titled lacqueys 
about his court, it would be thought neceſſary to 
put him in a ſtrait jacket. But why, ye deluded 
nation ! are his arms unconfined, when urged by 
tenfold frenzy, he unfurls the bloody banner of 
ſtrife, lets looſe the hounds of havoc, and whirling 
furious in his hand the firebrand of war, involves 
in ruin and deſolation half the habitable globe ? _ 
Thanks to the glorious Revolution of France ! 

thanks to the enlightened labours of the National 
Aſſembly! We may now hope to ſee the day neither the intrigues of a court-paraſfite, the elec- 
tioneering intereſts of a Miniſter, nor the vile ma- 
chinations of contractors, brokers, Jews, ſhall pre- 
vail to arm brother againſt brother, and to render 


man the greateſt enemy of man. The intereſts of 
the people (which are every where the ſame) ſhall 


ſoon ceaſe to be ſacrificed to the domineering luſts 
of a few; and the Law, which 1s the voice of the 
people, —and all other authority is not law, but 
uſurpation and tyranny—the Law ſhall eſtabliſh 
peace and good-will among men. Such, O thou 


foul of Benevolence! now united to the eternal 


ſource of UNIVERSAL GOOD: ſuch, O Price! was 
the pious end to which were devoted the labours of 
thy life: ſuch were the heart-cheering hopes that 
ſupported thy meek ſpirit under the cruel calumny 


of thoſe who hated thee ; becauſe they feared the 


light, and were enemies to the truth ' | | 
With reſpect to the preſent States of Europe in 


general, we ſhall not wander far from the truth, if we 


regard them not as lawful Governments (For how 
can the Law exiſt where the voice of the people is 
not heard ?), but fo many independent aſlociations 
of robbers. | 

In order to maintain their reſpective confedera- 
_ cies, they are under the neceſſity of eſtabliſhing at 
home a ſpecies of local equity; but their notions of 
rectitude have no root in the love of the human 
race, nor extend beyond the limits of the State. 
To a certain artificial ſyſtem of morals they pay 
a profound reſpect ; but the real and indefeaſible 


rights of humanity they are ever ready to ſacrifice 


to every ſordid intereſt, or ridiculous caparice. 
The regulations of the banditti muſt implicitly be 
obeyed; but the eternal bonds of nature, the tender 


ſympathies of the heart, may be cut aſunder with 
impunity. As far as that mountain they are bound 


m ſome reſpect to be merciful and 3 but on 
the farther {ide of yonder rivulet they will rob without 
compunction, and murder without remorſe. : 

And if we enquire into the real cauſe of all thoſe 
wars which have to long agitated Europe, and de- 
luged our fields with blood, we {hail find them not 
a whit more reſpectable in their motives than thoſe 
bloody contentions which the flave-merchant, with 
the brandy-bottle in his hand, excites between the 
drunken chiefs of Africa. In Europe, as in Africa, 
it is the proud intoxication of royalty, and the cruel 
avarice of traffic, that plan together thoſe ſcenes of 
murder; and in either country the olyect and end 
of war is the ſame — ro make flaves. | 

In a word, the practice of almoſt every ſpecies 
of government in Europe is perverlely . oppotite to 
the principle of ſociety. Inſtead of that ſentiment 
of brotherhood which united mankind from the 
beginning, and which was taught as the baſe 
of morals by Plato, Briraha, Confuſcius, Jeſus. 
Chriſt, and x ofe other immortal men, whom, in 
vatious parts of the earth, and at different ages of 
the world, the SurREME WIS Don has raiſed up 
for the falvation of the human race ; inſtead, 1 ſay, 
of recognizing that Kindlyprinciple of union which 
nature has infuſed into our boſoms, we find every, 
where eſtabliſhed a ſyſtem of violence, Which, 
founded on a proud ſpirit of domination, oppoſite. 
to juſtice as to common ſenſe, riſes up in a pro- 
greſſive Babel of oppreſſion, till it reaches in royalty 
the very ſummit of wickedneſs, the very pinnacle of 
inſanity. . To attain and preſerve this bad pre- emi- 
nence, the moſt criminal means have been held 1n- 
nocent and 4501. Hence then 1 it is that the chief 

Cxſar uſed often to repeat the ſentence which Euripides 

ts into the mouth of a tyrant: In other things be jaſt; but 


if a crown be the object of your ambition, let no crane ſtand 
in your way.” | 


parts in the drama of olitical life have been occu- 
pied by the wildeſt heads and the moſt atrocious of 
hearts; and that the world has been thrown into 
anarchy by thoſe dolirious ſchemes of overbearing 
ambition, which ferment in the brains of lunacy, 
and rend with uproar the cells of Bedlam Foy which, 
when man returns to the ſobriety of reaſon, they 
will finally be conſigned. 

I come now to that pretended ſalvo for all the 
malverſations of government; I mean the reſponfi- 
bility of office. Will the regular corporations of par- 
liamentary politicians permit us to examine in what 
this reſponſibility conſiſts, and where it lies? In the 
firſt place, it does nor lie with the King, for he is 
not reſponſible; nor does it lie with the Miniſter, 
for the Miniſter, honeft man ! is entirely guided by 
the wiſdom of Parliament, and acts under their 
ſanction.— The Lords are not reſponſible, for they 
repreſent themſelves; and the Commons are not 
reſponſible, for they repreſent the people; chat 
is to ſay, theoretically, or, in other words, by a cer- 


tain logical fiction, which ſuppoſes a fact, and then 


draws concluſions from that ſuppoſition, as if it 
were realty founded on fact. In ſhort, inſtead of 
finding reſponſibility in what is called the Englith 
Conſtitution, I diſcover a political machine, cun- 
ningiy contrived to elude reſponſibility, and to 
plunder the people with impunity. It recals to 
my memory a ſtory which J have ſomewhere read 
in the ancient hiſtory of Greece. The Athe- 
nians, impelled by famine or gluttony, were de- 
ſirous of taſting the fleſt of the bull, an animal 


_ conſecrated, in the primitive ages of Greece, to the 


labours of the field, and which ſeems, in every coun- 
try, to have eſcaped long the ſlaughter to which al- 
Won al eren creatures had fuceciirely been doomed: 

G The”. 


T an ] 


The Athenians wiſhed ardently to feaſt upon the 
fleſh and to drink the blood of John Bull; but, like 
a wiſe and pradent people, they defired, at the ſame 


8 time, to avoid the odium of the act, and to feaſt, if 


poſſible, with a quiet conſcience. They contriv ed 
the buſineſs in manner: they choſe a number 
of virgins (ſweet innocent creatures who could do 19 
rorong to bring water to whet the hatchet and the 
knife. As ſoon as thoſe weapons were made ſharp, 
one man delivered the axe, another ſtruck the 
blow, a third cut the bullock's throat. Having 
done the deed, they ſkinned the animal; and all that 
were preſent feaſted upon his fleſh. After this, 
they ſewed up the ſkin, ſtuffing it with ſtraw ; and 
having ſet it up, put a plow to its tail as if it ſtill 
were alive, and in act to till the ground. Thoſe 
who had been guilty of the deed were then called 
before the tribunal of juſtice to anſwer for them- 
ſelves. The virgins, who brought the water, threw 
the blame on the perſons who whetted the ſteel; 

thoſe, in their turn, ſhifted the reſponſibility on the 
man who delivered the hatchet ; he impeached 
the perſon who ſtruck the blow ; and the latter 
accuſed the weapon ; which, unable to anſwer for 
_ was found guilty of murder, and caſt into the 
ea. 

What a wonderful reſemblance between the 
Athenian and Britiſh facrifice of the bull, even to 
the worming-out his bowels, and ſetting up a John 
Bull of ftraw ! There is {till another circumſtance 
in which the ſacrifice. of the real has a ſtriking 
likeneſs to that of the metaphorical John Bull. — 

In order that the facrifice ſhould be deemed good 
and acceptable to the gods, it was neceſſary that 
the animal ſhould advance without reluctance to 
the altar, and ſubmit his throat to the knife. The 

+5 - interpreter 


L- 8. 3 

interpreter of thoſe ſigns of conſent was the prieſt, 

to whom a fat portion of the ſacrifice was ſet apart. 
In the ſame manner, the Houſe of Commons, 
who do not fatten on the blood of the people (and 
in that the compariſon does not hold exactly 
good); the Houſe of Commons, I ſay, officiates as 
prieſt, and judges by the geſticulation of John 
Bull, whether he 1s or 15 not willing to be bled. 

It is curious to obſerve, that the political prieſt has 


never yet found that the patient animal ſhrunk 


from the operation *. 

But to return to the Petition of Mr. Horne 
Tooke: Have we any reaſon to hope that it ſhall in- 
duce the Houſe of Commons to redreſs our griev- 
ances, by granting to the people an equal repre- 
ſentation ? I ſhall beg leave to anſwer this queſtion, 


by relating a ſtory, a mode of delivering, or rather 


diſguiſing one's ſentiments, invented in the days 
of ſlavery, and certainly well adapted to the pre- 
ſent day; in which it is almoſt impoſſible to deliver 
an opinion on affairs, public or private, without in- 
curring the penalty of impriſonment and the terrors 
of the pillory. But to come to my ſtory :—Aa 
Algerine pirate falling in with an Engliſh mer- 
chantman, attacked, and, after an obſtinate en- 


gagement, made her a prize. The unfortunate 


crew were plundered, carried into a port in Barbary 
and ſold for flaves. They contrived, however, to 
tranſmit an account of their captivity to the En- 
. gliſh Conſul at Algiers. This gentleman in- 


ſtantly waited upon the Dey, and in warm and 


indignant language remonſtrated on the inſult that, 


* You ſee they ene our Houſe of Commune: as „ a 
& ſemblance,” “ a form,” —“ a theory,” — —* a ſhadow,” — 
WS mockery,” perhaps, « a nuiſance.“ | 
| Bunxkz's REFLECTIONS, &c. p. 83. 

contrary to the faith of treaty, had been offered to 
his nation. The Barbarian Prince, reclining on a 
ſilken ſopha, and inhaling through a long tube the 
teful fumes of intoxication, heard with much 
apathy the Conſul's glowing remonſtrance. As 
toon as the Engliſhman had ceaſed ſpeaking, the 
Dey, taking the pipe irom his mouth, delibe rately 
replied, + My friend, the Algerines, it is true, are 
great robbers—awp I AI THEIR CHIEF *“ 
Indeed it appears clearly from the Petition ii {elf, 
that Mr. Horne Tooke had no other ob ect in view. 
(and that certainly was an object of great impor- 
tance) than to demonſtrate to the pꝛople the abſur- 
City of ſimilar applications. To {peak the truth, a 
parliamentary reform may ſerve to amuſe, for a 
time, the people (and no doubt the Miniſtry will 
ſoon find it convenient to play cf ſome ſuch farce 
upon the public), but can never remedy the defects, 
nor eradicate the deep-rooted vices of the Govern- 
ment; vices of which thoſe very political corpora- 
tions are no inconſiderable part. Our evils are be- 
yond the reach of thoſe time: ſerving expedients; 
and the enlarged and liberal ſentiments of the pre- 
ſent age have left far behind that pitiful fort of ſel- 
fiſh prudence which governs the conduct of thoſe 
Who have converted Government into a gainful 
monopoly. Our only hopes of renovation—Shall I 
dare to give utterance to that which every mind 
conceives, and to which are turned the defires of 
every heart? Our only hopes of renovation are ſuſ- 
| pended on a NATIoNAL ASSEMBLY. There the 
| voice of the poor will be heard againft his privi- 
leged oppreſſor; there the language of common- 
ſenſe will take place of a ſenſel * about pre- 


* See Shaw's Travels in Barbary. 


CET 


** 


rogative, 


E 


tive, privilege, lex parliamenti, confidence in Mi- 


miters ; there the intereſt cf rotten boroughs and 


ariſtocratic corporations will give way to the good 
of the people; and, in ſhort, the whole ſyſtem of 
ſanctioned robbery will vaniſh before the Rights of 
Man, and the great intereſts of humanity. 

He that does not foreſee a grand revolution in 
the general ſyſtem of European Governments, muſt 
ſhut his eyes to the evidence of things. On one 
hand, the public miſery; on the other, the pro- 
greſs of reaſon and political information preſs for- 
ward an event for which the minds of men are 


ready and prepared. The late glorious revolution 


in France holds forth an example which ſooner or 
later will be imitated by every nation in Europe. 
The ſtruggles for independence in various parts of 
the globe, the emancipation of America, the fall of 
the Baſtile, are ſure indications that the human 
ſoul awakes from a long lethargy of herſelf. En- 
creaſed by the ſtreams of philoſophy, the public 
ſentiments ſwell above the narrow bounds which 
Ariſtocracy and Prieftcraft had preſcribed to their 
courſe. Woe be to the Miniiter, and confuſion to 
the Government, that ſhall dare to oppoſe the tor- 


rent, or withſtand the irreſiſtible force of public 


opinion, in its rapid riſe to the grand level of 
UNIVERSAL REASON, from which, as from the 
main ocean of the moral world, ſhould flow the 
_ fertilizing ſtreams of law, of religion, of civil policy. 


 « So long,” ſays Rouſſeau, © as a people yield 


to invincible neceſſity, and obey, they do well; but 
when they take advantage of their force, and ſhake 
off the yoke, they do ſtill better.” The nations of 
Europe feel their force, and are determined to be 
free. Let not the Government of England fondly 
imagine that ſhe alone ſhall ſtand unmoved * 

the conflict of nations, and the general ſtruggle for 
independence. The Iriſh, whom with all the feu- 
dal infolence of conquerors ſhe has ever delighted to 
mortify and oppreſs; the Scots, betrayed at the union 
by a vile nobleſſe, tamed by repeated butcheries 
into abject ſubmiſſion to the bloody Houſe of 

H „and delivered over a traffic for pedlars and 
a prey to miniſterial tools; numerous claſſes of the 
Engliſh nation, whom her petty policy condemns to 
political infignificance ; all have clubbed together 
their common hatred, and conſpired the ruin of their 
common oppreſſor. Already round her growls the 


ſtorm that ſhall lay the rotten fabric in the duſt. 


In the accompliſhment of the NEW ORDER of 


\ things, ſo devoutly to be wiſhed for, there are two 


forts of men againſt whom it becomes us to ſtand 
upon our guard: the firſt, are the ſons of violence, 
who would adviſe us to act with precipitation and 
harſhneſs ; the ſecond, are the timid race of men 
(and who, therefore, aſſume to themſelves the ap- 
pellation of moderate) who would blunt by the in- 
deciſion of their character the vigour of our re- 


ſolves. The latter gentleman will tell you, that 


things are not ſufficiently mature; that the time is 
not yet come; that the Engliſh Conſtitution is not 

yet ſo far gone in corruption as to require a remedy 
ſo violent. They — 5 that the people are op- 
preſſed with taxes; that the freedom of the preſs is 
annihilated ; that the tyranny of exciſe has made 
an, alarming progreſs: but ftill they will tell your 
there is great reaſon to hope that things will alter 
for the better; and that if Miniſters ſhould conti- 
nue to aggravate the public grievances, the general 
miſery will at laſt produce that remedy which it 
would be dangerous to provoke. Such 1s the lan- 


- guage of timidity, and not unſeldom the cant of 


pretended 


EN 
pretended moderation in men who derive from the 
depreſſion and diſtreſs of their fellow-men their 
anti-ſocial privileges and ſelfiſn enjoyments. But 
what would we think of a perſon who ſhould ſay to 
another, It is true, you have been ill uſed; your 
powerful neighbour has broken down your fences, 
robbed your orchard, corrupted your ſervants, re- 
moved the bou ndary of your eſtate, —but yet bear 
your wrongs with patience : your meek ſubmiſſion 
will perhaps diſarm his injuſtice ; and at all events 
it will be time enough to reſiſt when he tweaks you 
by the noſe, kicks you 1n the breech, and ſpits in 
your face. But do not thoſe gentlemen foreſee, 
that the puſillanimous moderation which they pre- 
ſcribe is moſt likely to produce the very miſchiefs 
which they dread. And ought they not to remem- 
ber, that a people once vilified have not only rights 
to vindicate, but affronts to revenge? Let it be our 
taſk to prevent, by a timely reformation, that diſ- 
grace which to waſh away torrents of blood might 
flow in vain. 

The preſſing neceſſity of ſuch a reformation i is 
on all hands acknowledged. The voice of public 
miſery has been heard, where it ſeldom has been 
able to penetrate, in the very midſt of the Senate. 
Several Noble Lords, ſeveral Members of the 
Houſe of Commons, have deigned to deplore the 
general diſtreſs. Lord Landſdown, in particular, 
has exhibited the following picture, terrifying as 
it is true, of the univerſal wretchedneſs: 

« But what, in the mean time, as had been 
remarked by a Noble Lord, was becoming of that 
reſpectable and valuable claſs of the community, 
thoſe gentlemen of ſmall fortunes in the country, 

who diſcharged the functions of magiſtracy and 
police. By the lateſt accounts it — that 


they 


„ 
FOR were almoſt driven from the exerciſe of hoſ- 


pitality, and were emigrating into town, 1n order 
to educate their children, and board as cheaply as 
poſſible. Every day it appeared that ſome houſe 
was breaking up. The ancient order of yeomanry, 
berween the farmers and country-gentlemen, was 
now completely extinguiſhed. There was ſtill a body 
of rich farmers; but theſe depended entirely on the 
extent of their capital. The peaſantry, it appeared 
from the report of phyſicians, in conſequence of 
their reduced living, were falling the victims of 
putrid diſtempers . 

Here, then, we perceive, that not only the mul 
titude (for the ſufferings of the /wini/h multitude, 
as the philanthropic Edmund Burke has dared to 
ſtigtmnatize the people, ought not perhaps to fix 
our attention for a moment); ;—we perceive, I ſay, 
that not only the multitude are -plunged in the 
moſt lamentable diſtreſs, bur alſo that the deluge 
of public miſery has reached even to thoſe whom a 
more elevated ſituation had preſerved till now above 
the level of the general calamity. The gentlemen 
of imall fortunes are forced to fly from their pater- 
nal eſtates, where they can no longer exerciſe their 
wonted hoſpitality ; they are forced to fly from the 
beloved haunts of their youth, and to hide their 
ſhame in fome obſcure corner of the capital. As 
for the yeomanry, they have vaniſhed from the 
earth; the ancient glory of England is completely 
extinguiſhed'! „ For ſhame hath devoured the 
kbar of our fathers from our youth; their flocks 
and their herds, their ſons and their daughters. 
We he down in our ſhame, and our confuſion 
covereth us +. ” | 


© Voming Chronic os de + Jeremiah. 
But 


Bat why ſhould the poor peaſant droop with 
want in the midft of his labours? Why in the 


midſt of plenty ſhould dire famine * ſeize upon 


the tiller of the ſoil? We can diſpenſe with his 
labours, ſay the rich; we have found out curious 
contrivances to perform the offices of huſbandry 
without his aid. Are the poor, then, doomed to 
periſh from the face of the earth ? Shall the field 
ſupport no living thing except the victims of your 
gluttony +? Shall our cities ſwarm only with the 
miniſters of your luſts ? The land is ours, you reply; 
we bought it with our money, and we will do with 
it as we think fit. But when our fathers fold you this 
land for a piece of ſilver, Did they ſell alſo the rights 
of their children for ever? Did they foreſtal our 
claims? Did they bind in chains of braſs the fate of 
a people whom as yet the earth had not ſeen, and 


who were deſtined to ſhoot forth into life long after 


the fathers of the foreſt had returned into duſt * But 
did our Sires make no proviſo for their poſterity ? 
Does 'the deed by which they gave away their 
eſtate contain no falutary clauſe in our behalf? Is 
there no day of reſtoration , no glad day of jubilee 


** Thou ſhalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the 
the corn.” Deut. chap. xxiv ver. 4. | 5 
I This is literally the cafe in the north of Scotland, where 
large tracts of land that formerly ſupported a hardy happy race 
of men, are now converted to grazing ground for cattle. 
t All legiſlators who have had any claim to the wiſdom of 
that character, have taken care to eſtabliſh. checks againſt the 
moſt grinding of all uſurpations, the monopoly of land. The 
regulations of Moſes on that head are worthy that SurzzME 

is bon to which his laws are referred. 

& Ye ſhall not oppreſs one another; but thou ſhalt fear thy 
God: for I am the Lord your God. | | 

&« The land ſhall not be fold for ever: for the land is mine: 
for ye are frranger and / jaurners with me. 4 
„And in all the land of your poſſeſſion ye ſhall grant a 
redemption for the land. LO 4 If 


declared? Have our forefathers | devoured our 
inheritance? Robbers of poſterity! Have they dared 
to appear at the tribunal. of the common Father of 
us all, with the ſpoil of their children in their 
hands ? Have they ied with them our appoint- 
ed portion of enjoyment? Have they ſunk: de- 
prefied into the earth with the anticipated curſes 
of generations unborn ; with all the weight of our 


. wretchedneſs on their heads ?—O that we had 


therefore remained till in the chaos of non- 
exiſtence O that Nature had rep repreſſed us in the 
threſhold of life —0 that ſhe had whiſpered in 
our ear, © There is no room for you on the earth: 
a pnvileged race of men have engroſſed to them- 
ſelves all the comforts of exiſtence ; and for you, 


nothing remains but the tares of diſappointmenc 


and the thorns of diſpair! - And yet tellus, ye 


Lords of the earth, tell us, ſince we have no right 


to the land of our nativity, no claim to the ground 
on which we tread, tell us why our limbs are na- 


turally as vigorous and as comely as yours? Tell us 


why our ſouls can boaſt an equal portion of hea- 
venly fire ? Tell us, in fine, why our faculties and 
and our deſires for ever falſify your titles, and give 
the lie to your parchments? 


- But the multitude, ſay they, the ſwini/h multitude, 
ſay the powerful, have no knowledge; they are 


If thy brother be waxen poor, and heth ſold away ſome 
of his poſſeſſions, and if any of his kin come to redeem it, then 


hall he redeem that which his brother ſold. 


And if the man ſhall have none to redeem it, and he him- 
at. be able to redeem it, | 
Then Jet him count the years of the ſale thereof, and re- 
ſore the ovE&plus unto the man to whom he ſold, that he may 
return unto his poſſeſſion. | 
« But if he be not able to e it to him, then that which 
is fold ſhall remain in the hand of him that has bought it, until 


the 7 of Jubilee ; and in the jubilee it ſhall go out, and he 


unn nn bis poſſeſſion.” el. chap. xxv. 1 
without 


-_ - 


. * þ 


without wiſdom; we have plunged them in tlie 


mire; they will wallow in the filth''of their 1 Ign0- 


rance for ever. It is true, you have corrupted the 


underſtanding of the people; you have interpoſed 
between them and the proſpect of their rights, the 


dark clouds of accumulated prejudices; you have 


ſhaved the head of Sampſon; you have put out 
his eyes, it is true: But why ſhould the keen edge 
of your mockery drive him to deſpair? Are you 
not afraid, leſt, when he hears over his head the 
mad tumult of your merriment, and reflects on 
the miſery of his lot; when his ſufferings, thus 
aggravated by wanton inſult, he compares with the 
felicities of your condition, Are you not afraid, I 


ſay, leſt, in the blindneſs of his rage, he ſhould 


: lay hold on the boaſted Ccrinthian Pillars * of your 
ſlate, and, by a deſperate effort, overwhelm in one 
dreadful ruin, himſelf, his oppreſſors, and all this 
lofty fabric of your pride ? 

To prevent fo terrible an event (which the in- 
fatuated tyranny of government tends fo evidently 
to produce), it becomes every man to contribute to 
the utmoſt of his power to open the eyes of the 
people, -and to lead them to a firm, calm, and 
manly vindication of their rights. In order to 
avert every ſpecies of violence. ({o contrary to thoſe 
principles of freedom which ſeek to eftablith a 
ſyſtem of government mild as that nature which is 


the baſis of all our rights), it would be prudent in 


us to take a leſſon from the operation of the late 


revolution in France. In that country, while force 


was on one fide, and the public avill on the other, 
ſeveral acts of violence were committed from the 


No dility is a graceful ornament to the civil order. It ix 
the Corinthian capital of poliſhed ſociety. 
Bvxker's RerLEcCTIONs, &c. p. 205. 




E 
unavoidable oppoſition of particular intereſts to the 
public good. But no ſooner had the nation taken 
arms (and no nation unarmed ever reſcued their 
liberty, or long retained it in their hands); no 
ſooner, I ſay, had the nation taken arms, and that 
public force was coupled with public opinion, 
when inſtantly all outrage ceaſed (for all reſiſtance 
was in vain), and, like the thunder of Omnipotence, 
the voIcE OF THE PEOPLE commanded reverence 
and reſpect from one extremity of France to the 
other. 1 15 
Let us not be deceived, for it is force alone that 
can vindicate the rights of the people. Force is the 
baſis of right, or rather right and force are one. 
The will of God is right, for his power is almighty; 
and on the invincible power of the people the 
rights of man ſtand upright, 5 
The force of the people conſiſts in that ſtrong 
ſentiment of right which God has implanted in 
the human heart, or rather it is God himſelf chat 
acts within us; for in God we live, and move, 
and have our being.” Hence the will of the people 
and the will of God are one: Vox Populi, vox 
Dei. | 5 
But force is ſometimes ſupplanted by fraud. Of 
all frauds the the moſt fatal was the invention of 
arms. Could we deſtroy this fraud, force would 
again eſtabliſn right; and over the cunning of the 
few would prevail the might of the many. But ſince 
it is no longer poſſible to plunge into oblivion this 
icious invention, let us uſe it like thoſe poiſons 
which, taken in copious draughts, are ſaid to defeat 
the fatal effects of a ſmaller doſe. By the fraud of 
arming the parts againſt the whole, the general 
liberty was overthrown; let us therefore arm the 
uhole to overturn che uſurpation of the parts. _— 
Q 


E 


the age of iron was the laſt ſtage in the depravation 
of man, ſo neither in our upward progreſs in the 
circle of human mutability can we hope to arrive 
at the age of gold without paſſing through an 
age of iron. Let us therefore every man be- 


come a man of iron; let us riſe up as one man, 


armed, to vindicate our rights. But let no act 
of vengeance ſtain the holy work of regenera- 
tion Let us remember, that the luſt of revenge 
has ruined more than one revolution. In ſhort, 
from the puniſhment due to their paſt miſ- deeds, 


let a general amneſty protect the public robbers; 


but whoever ſhall dare to oppoſe the reformation 


of abuſe, him let the beſorr of deſtruction {weep from 


the face of the earth : curſed be the eye that taketh 
pity on the enemy of the people; and may the 
tongue wither that {hall plead in his behalf. 

In the formation of the future Conftitution of 
this Country, it becomes us to avoid that danger- 
ous deviation from ſound policy in which the 
French nation have erred, in aſſigning to their 
National Aſſembly not only the province of dif- 


cuſſing and propoſing laws, but alſo the power of 
enacting them. The ſuſpenſive veto of the King 
is not a remedy, but an aggravation of the mit- 


chief. Let us, together with the advantages of a 


fair repreſentation, vindicate to ourſelves that actual 


_ exerciſe of the ſovereignty, by which the ancient 
republics of Greece (notwithſtanding the great de- 


fects of their government) exalted the human 


character higher than it has riſen ſince their fall. 
To the wiſdom of the nation, condenſed in the 
National Aſſembly, it belongs to deliberate, to 
diſcuſs, and to propoſe decrees ; but nothing leſs 
than the 701} of the peotle can carry thoſe decrees 
into LAw. The difficulty of aſſembling the people 

- 


1 54 ] 


is at beſt an abſurd objection; for the people can 
as eaſily aſſemble by ſections, diſtricts, &c. to give 
their ſauction or apply their veto to a decree pro- 
poſed by the National Aſſembly, as they can to 
appoint that Aſſembly itſelf. It is as eaſy for che 
people (and certainly much more important) to 
n or reject a decree, as it 1s to elect a judge, a 
biſhop, a conſtable, a king. ITN 
But the political writers, and even thoſe the moſt 
favourable to the cauſe of freedom, are of opinion, 
that a fair repreſentation will anſwer all the purpoſes 
of government. Let us examine with ſome attention 
this important queſtion. The law is the will of 
the pcople; whatever therefore 15 not the will of the 
people is not law. But how then, without appeal- 
ing to the people, can we know whether or not the 
decrees of the National Aſſembly be law, that is to 
ſay. whether they be willed dy the people? The 
National Aſſembly are liable to err from three 
cauſes. 1. From fear. 2. From corruption. 
3. From ignorance. They are liable to err from 
fear, inaſmuch as they may be awed by the con- 
ſpiracy of what is called the Executive Power, by a 
riotous rabble, by a general at the head of his 
army. They are liable to err from corrruption : 
the gold of foreign powers, the ſeduction of the 
civil lift, or the weighty bribe of a powerful com- 
bination of men of wealth, may turn them aſide 
from the path of their duty. Thirdly, they are 
liable to err from ignorance : and this operation of 
ignorance is twofold, either under or above the 
level of the people. If the decrees of the National 
Ailembly fall beneath the level of the people, in that 
cafe the laws will act in an inverſe ratio to that 
which 1s or ought to be their chief object, the in- 
ſtruction and exaltation of the people. If, on the 


(9) 


„ 
other hand, the decrees of the National Aſſembly 
ſoar much above the degree of inſtruction at t 
the nation is arrived, thoſe decrees will become 
acts of violence and oppreſſion; they will ſhock the 
feelings and the prejudices of the people; they will 
cauſe murmuring, diſcontent, reſiſtance, inſur- 
rection, and introduce anarchy, inſtead of bringing 
forth order. 
But Whether the National Aſſembly be mov ed 
by fear} influenced by corruption, or act from 1g- 
norance (and that they ſhould not be obnoxious to 
one or more of thoſe motives is morally impoſſible), 
it is evident that che nation, inſtead of being go- 
verned hy the law, vill be ſubjected to decrees 
that violate the law; that is to ſay, the will of the 
people. Now this is uſurpation and tyranny. _ 
To correct. (and that men ſhould puzzle their 
underſtanding to find out expedients to correct an 
evil, iniſtead of removing it entirely, is a proof of the 
timidity wich which the human mind advances in 
every novel diſcuſſion); to correct, 1 ſay, the er- 
rors of repreſentation, two Principal expedients are 
propoſed; the right of remonſtrance and that of 
inſtruction. The right of petition or remonſtrance 
is at beſt an ambiguous weapon, as often turned 
againſt the people as employed in their favour 
Be ſides, a petition can contain the will of eme 
only, to which the government are not bound o 
attend; and the perions at the head of affairs can 
always {ay this is not the voice of the nation. 
The right of inſtruction, that is to ſay, the 
right which che conſtituents have to inſtru their | 
deputies, ſuppoſes two abfurdities. Firſt, it makes 
decifion precede deliberation. Secondly, it involves 
the abſurdity of ſaying to the deputy choſen, You 
are * than we, therefore deliberate in our ſtead; 
| but 


8— —_ * 


[ 56 } 


but at the ſame time take with you our inſtructions, 
in order that our ignorance and incapacity may 
ide and controul your abilities and wiſdom. 
But whether thoſe inſtructions be abſolute or 
only recommendatory, ſtill they muſt of neceſſity 
cramp the deputy; for in order — perform well any 
operation whatever, it is neceſſary to have abſolute 
and deſpotic power of exertion as far as regards the 
object in queſtion. And this abſolute power of 
exertion is neceſſarily connected with ſingleneſs of 
action; for if a man have more than one object in 
view, it is clear that his mind muſt be divided, 
and therefore weakened, as to its operation on 
either object. This truth, ſtil unrecognized in 
politics, has been long ſince familiar to our me- 
chanics. The pin- maker, for inſtance, analyzing 
the proceſs of making a pin, has found that it con- 
ſiſted of twenty diſtinct or ſimple operations, which 
he has therefore diſtributed among twenty perſons. 
How much this diſtribution of labour has contri- 
buted to the neatneſs and diſpatch of the work, all 
the world knows. Now, in ow rocels of making 
aws (an operation at leaſt as Fiecuk, 2 cer- 


tainly more important, than pin-making), there are 


evidently three principal and diſtinct operations; to 
deliberate, to decide, to execute. Now not only 


are theſe diſtinct operations, but they are functions 


that belong to organs totally different. To deli- 
berate is the province of 4 head, the heart de- 


cides, and che arm executes. When the head and 


heart ate agreed, the arm performs with alacrity its 
taſk; but when the heart refuſes its conſent, the 
arm will not act; for Nature made the arm to obey 


the impulſe of che heart, and not the ſuggeſtions of 


the head. In like manner, when the heart of the 




head (the National Aſſembly), then the e 
power, that is to ſay, the mighty arm of the 
people, made up of the united arms of all the 
citizens (and to apply che term executive power to 
any other modification of power is as abturd as it 
is dangerous), converts with eaſe into act the deli- 
berations of the head, flowing warm from the ſanction 
of the heart. But if the heart deny its ſanction ta 
the deliberations of the head, the arm cannot without 
violence be made to execute; and all violence is 
cn to government as anarchy i is to order. 
Tbere is alſo another reaſon ſtill more important 
fo aſſembling the people, which is the neceſfity of 
eſtabliſhing the law upon common sENSE. Now, 
What elſe is common ſenſe but the common confent 


of mankind ? Could we affemble in one ſpot tho 


whole human race, we ſhould then have abſolute 
common ſenſe, the ſum total of wiſdom, the main 
ocean of mind; and the roar of the people would 
| ſpeak with omnipotence the will of Gop UxIVER- 
zal. The greater the maſs of the people aſſembled, 
the greater will be the portion of common SENSE 
obtained; the nearer we ſhall approach the Univer- 
aA Goop. From this profound ſource of ſentiment 
it was that the Greeks, in their numerous aſſemblies, 
drew by ſympathy thoſe wonderful energies; and 
ſtrong in the collected feelings of a 
nation, they marked deep the field of battle, 
impreſſed the marble, or inſcribed the glowing 
verſe with characters of greatneſs which no 5 
14 ſhall efface. 
But would you fee; at one glance, a compare» 
tive view of a nation exerciſing the ſovereignty 
witch a people acting by repreſentatives, turn your 
yes to where, covering that immenſe plain, the 
reeks aſſembled in the pure face of the fan, 
and ny the: holy preſence of heaven and earth, 
. declare | 


t 


Aar che ſovereign will. And now into 
this chapel, taking care firſt to ſtop your noſe, and 
there you will fee ſhut up ſweltering in that apart- 
ment four or five hundred fenators, who, by the 
Gin light of a lamp, amid the fumes of indigeſtion, 
the ſteam of ſweat, and other fetid exhalations, emit 
from rotten lungs the wholeſome laws that are to 
late nine millions of inhabitants! | 
When thoſe who conducted the Conſtituent Na- 
heads Aſſembly told the French that the ſovereignty 
belonged indeed to the people, but that they could 
not exerciſe it except by delegation, they uttered not 
only a cruel mockery, but an impudent lie, or an 
ignorant untruth. It was downright deriſion to ſay 
that the people had a right which they could not 
. Exercite ; and it was falſe to ſay that they could not 
exerciſe that right, fince among all the free nations 
of antiquity the ſovereign authority, or right of ma- 
King laws, was actually exercifed by the people. 
All that we defire at preſent, however, is 2 
Sir and equal repreſentation. A liberal diſcuſſion 
of the principles of legiſlation in a National Aſſem- 
bly will produce in a few months, and that too 
without violence, a redreſs of thoſe grievances 
which ages of ignorance and miſ-rule have heaped 
upon our head. Let us always remember, how- 
ever, that liberty is only another name for equality; 
and that no nation deſerves the appellation of free 
in which the conditions of men are greatly unequal. 
In order to reſtore the people by degrees to that 
happy ſtate of independence, the National Aſſembly 
of France have put in action ſeveral means which 
we. alſo might with ſucceſs adopt. Of theſe one 
of the moſt important is the abolition of the abſurd 
right of primogeniture, or elderſhip ; ; an abuſe by 


which: we conſecrate the crime of Cain, and renew _ 


_ the murder of the your brother. Another 
powerful 


( 59 ] 
powerful means, is the diviſion of the commons 
among the poor; for above all let us keep in view 
this eternal truth, that liberty can never endure which 
is not firmly infixed in the ſoil; and that in order to 
brave the tempeſt of years, and to flouriſh through 
a long period of ages, the plant of freedom muſt 
ſtrike deep her root, and ſpread wide in the bowels 
of the earth * | ace i197 FER es 

Wich reſpect to the ſyſtem of government to be 
adopted, it appears to me that the beſt, and indeed 
the only good ſyſtem of government is that which 
unites in one a pure democracy, a pure ariſtocracy, 
and a pure monarchy. To explain this ſeeming 
enigma, the government muſt conſiſt in a pure 
democracy, inaſmuch as the power of the - 2who/e 

muſt be omnipotent over all its paris; for when a 
part has power to controul the i , tyranny and 
not government muſt enſue. In the ſecond place, 
a pure ariſtocracy muſt be eſtabliſhed (that is to 
ſay, an ariſtocracy in the proper and primitive ſenſe 

of the word, which ſignifies pre emineuce of the beſt). 
But who are the be? Thoſe certainly who are choſen 
by the people; for who except a man's fellow- citizens 
can be or ought to be the judges of his probity or 
wiſdom ? And in what manner is this ariſtocracy to 
be choſen ? By aſſembling the people, and electing, 
as the Jews did when they choſe a king, thoſe who 
are taller than the reſt by the: head; for ſuch are the 
men whom God, Nature, and the fitneſs of things, 
have deſtined to hold the reins of government. In 
the third place, a pure monarchy is neceſſary to good 
government; or, in other words, it is neceſſary that 

| * See on this ſubject An Eſſay on the Right of Propert 
in Land, with Reſpect to its Foun n 
its preſent. Eſtabliſhment by the Municipal Laws of Europe, 

and the Regulations by which it might be rendered more bene- 
 ficial to the lower Ranks of Mankind, by Dr. Ogilby, Profeffor 

of Humanity in the Univerſity of Aberdeen
ine wil} ſhould reign ſupreme over * for if ere 


exiſted in the ſtate more than ane vill, contention 
would enſue: and contention is the enemy of go-— 


vernment; for government is concord. In a 
t, there can be but one will or monarchy, 
hich is the will of the people; for if the will of a 
purt could controul the will of the whole, the natural 
ratio of things would be inverted, and tyranny 
would overthrow government. This, in my opi- 
nion, is the-POLITICAL TRINITY, three mo lifi- 
cations of one eſſence (the people), in which the 
whole fcience of government is ſummed up. _ | 
Let us now try, by theſe criteria of good go- 
vernment, the Conſtitution of ' Great-Britun. In 
the firft place, we have no democracy; for the 
poop, 4 we have already ſeen, have no power. 
ſecond place, we have no ariſtocracy, or 
| pre-eminence of the beſt; for the governors of the 
nation are the children of chance, and not the choice 
of the people. In the third place, the Britiſh Con- 
ftirunon is not monarchical; for the government 
is committed, not to the guidance of one will, bu 
to the contention of ſeveral. In its beſt theory, it is 
che warfare of three wills; but in fubſtance a ad 
A, ir 1s THE CONJURATED TREASON: OT 
THREE PARTS AGAINST THE WILL or THE 
wrote. ” HR | 
r ir is clearly demonitrated hat 
the Conftirunion, as it is called, of Great-Rritain is 5 
cher monarchy, ariſtocracy, nor democracy. 
zs it then? It is 0LIGARCHY, eee 
Ar CORRUPTION, ANARCHY. wo 
To dns Conftitution, therefore, what binders us 
Pw che words of the inſpired uriter: 
Hou ART WEIGHED ] +. THE BALANCE, AND 

